
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gdk-drag-context>
Derives from @code{<gobject>}.

This class defines no direct slots.

@end deftp

@deffn Function gdk-drag-get-selection  (context@tie{}@code{<gdk-drag-context>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gdk-atom>})
Returns the selection atom for the current source window.

@table @var
@item context
a @code{<gdk-drag-context>}.

@item ret
the selection atom.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-drag-abort  (context@tie{}@code{<gdk-drag-context>}) (time_@tie{}@code{unsigned-int32})
Aborts a drag without dropping.

This function is called by the drag source.

@table @var
@item context
a @code{<gdk-drag-context>}.

@item time
the timestamp for this operation.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-drop-reply  (context@tie{}@code{<gdk-drag-context>}) (ok@tie{}@code{bool}) (time_@tie{}@code{unsigned-int32})
Accepts or rejects a drop.

This function is called by the drag destination in response to a drop initiated
by the drag source.

@table @var
@item context
a @code{<gdk-drag-context>}.

@item ok
@samp{@code{#t}} if the drop is accepted.

@item time
the timestamp for this operation.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-drag-context-new  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gdk-drag-context>})
Creates a new @code{<gdk-drag-context>}.

@table @var
@item ret
the newly created @code{<gdk-drag-context>}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-drag-drop  (context@tie{}@code{<gdk-drag-context>}) (time_@tie{}@code{unsigned-int32})
Drops on the current destination.

This function is called by the drag source.

@table @var
@item context
a @code{<gdk-drag-context>}.

@item time
the timestamp for this operation.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-drag-motion  (context@tie{}@code{<gdk-drag-context>}) (dest_window@tie{}@code{<gdk-window>}) (protocol@tie{}@code{<gdk-drag-protocol>}) (x_root@tie{}@code{int}) (y_root@tie{}@code{int}) (suggested_action@tie{}@code{<gdk-drag-action>}) (possible_actions@tie{}@code{<gdk-drag-action>}) (time_@tie{}@code{unsigned-int32}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
Updates the drag context when the pointer moves or the set of actions changes.

This function is called by the drag source.

@table @var
@item context
a @code{<gdk-drag-context>}.

@item dest-window
the new destination window, obtained by @code{gdk-drag-find-window}.

@item protocol
the DND protocol in use, obtained by @code{gdk-drag-find-window}.

@item x-root
the x position of the pointer in root coordinates.

@item y-root
the y position of the pointer in root coordinates.

@item suggested-action
the suggested action.

@item possible-actions
the possible actions.

@item time
the timestamp for this operation.

@item ret
FIXME

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-drop-finish  (context@tie{}@code{<gdk-drag-context>}) (success@tie{}@code{bool}) (time_@tie{}@code{unsigned-int32})
Ends the drag operation after a drop.

This function is called by the drag destination.

@table @var
@item context
a @code{<gtk-drag-context>}.

@item success
@samp{@code{#t}} if the data was successfully received.

@item time
the timestamp for this operation.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-drag-status  (context@tie{}@code{<gdk-drag-context>}) (action@tie{}@code{<gdk-drag-action>}) (time_@tie{}@code{unsigned-int32})
Selects one of the actions offered by the drag source.

This function is called by the drag destination in response to
@code{gdk-drag-motion} called by the drag source.

@table @var
@item context
a @code{<gdk-drag-context>}.

@item action
the selected action which will be taken when a drop happens, or 0 to indicate
that a drop will not be accepted.

@item time
the timestamp for this operation.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-drag-drop-succeeded  (context@tie{}@code{<gdk-drag-context>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
Returns wether the dropped data has been successfully transferred. This function
is intended to be used while handling a @samp{GDK_DROP_FINISHED} event, its
return value is meaningless at other times.

@table @var
@item context
a @code{<gdk-drag-context>}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if the drop was successful.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
