
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gdk-pixbuf>
Derives from @code{<gobject>}.

This class defines the following properties:

@table @code
@item colorspace
The colorspace in which the samples are interpreted

@item n-channels
The number of samples per pixel

@item has-alpha
Whether the pixbuf has an alpha channel

@item bits-per-sample
The number of bits per sample

@item width
The number of columns of the pixbuf

@item height
The number of rows of the pixbuf

@item rowstride
The number of bytes between the start of a row and the start of the next row

@item pixels
A pointer to the pixel data of the pixbuf

@end table

@end deftp

@deffn Function gdk-pixbuf-get-colorspace  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-pixbuf>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gdk-colorspace>})
@deffnx Method get-colorspace
Queries the color space of a pixbuf.

@table @var
@item pixbuf
A pixbuf.

@item ret
Color space.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-pixbuf-get-n-channels  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-pixbuf>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-n-channels
Queries the number of channels of a pixbuf.

@table @var
@item pixbuf
A pixbuf.

@item ret
Number of channels.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-pixbuf-get-has-alpha  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-pixbuf>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-has-alpha
Queries whether a pixbuf has an alpha channel (opacity information).

@table @var
@item pixbuf
A pixbuf.

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if it has an alpha channel, @samp{@code{#f}} otherwise.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-pixbuf-get-bits-per-sample  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-pixbuf>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-bits-per-sample
Queries the number of bits per color sample in a pixbuf.

@table @var
@item pixbuf
A pixbuf.

@item ret
Number of bits per color sample.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-pixbuf-get-width  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-pixbuf>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-width
Queries the width of a pixbuf.

@table @var
@item pixbuf
A pixbuf.

@item ret
Width in pixels.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-pixbuf-get-height  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-pixbuf>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-height
Queries the height of a pixbuf.

@table @var
@item pixbuf
A pixbuf.

@item ret
Height in pixels.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-pixbuf-get-rowstride  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-pixbuf>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-rowstride
Queries the rowstride of a pixbuf, which is the number of bytes between the
start of a row and the start of the next row.

@table @var
@item pixbuf
A pixbuf.

@item ret
Distance between row starts.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-pixbuf-get-option  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-pixbuf>}) (key@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-option
Looks up @var{key} in the list of options that may have been attached to the
@var{pixbuf} when it was loaded.

@table @var
@item pixbuf
a @code{<gdk-pixbuf>}

@item key
a nul-terminated string.

@item ret
the value associated with @var{key}. This is a nul-terminated string that should
not be freed or @samp{@code{#f}} if @var{key} was not found.

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
