
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gdk-visual>
Derives from @code{<gobject>}.

This class defines no properties, other than those defined by its superclasses.

@end deftp

@deffn Function gdk-list-visuals  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{glist-of})
Lists the available visuals for the default screen. (See
@code{gdk-screen-list-visuals}) A visual describes a hardware image data format.
For example, a visual might support 24-bit color, or 8-bit color, and might
expect pixels to be in a certain format.

Call @code{g-list-free} on the return value when you're finished with it.

@table @var
@item ret
a list of visuals; the list must be freed, but not its contents

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-visual-get-best-depth  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
Get the best available depth for the default GDK screen. "Best" means "largest,"
i.e. 32 preferred over 24 preferred over 8 bits per pixel.

@table @var
@item ret
best available depth

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-visual-get-best-type  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gdk-visual-type>})
Return the best available visual type for the default GDK screen.

@table @var
@item ret
best visual type

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-visual-get-system  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gdk-visual>})
Get the system'sdefault visual for the default GDK screen. This is the visual
for the root window of the display. The return value should not be freed.

@table @var
@item ret
system visual

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-visual-get-best  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gdk-visual>})
Get the visual with the most available colors for the default GDK screen. The
return value should not be freed.

@table @var
@item ret
best visual

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-visual-get-best-with-depth  (depth@tie{}@code{int}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gdk-visual>})
Get the best visual with depth @var{depth} for the default GDK screen. Color
visuals and visuals with mutable colormaps are preferred over grayscale or
fixed-colormap visuals. The return value should not be freed. @samp{@code{#f}}
may be returned if no visual supports @var{depth}.

@table @var
@item depth
a bit depth

@item ret
best visual for the given depth

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-visual-get-best-with-type  (visual_type@tie{}@code{<gdk-visual-type>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gdk-visual>})
Get the best visual of the given @var{visual-type} for the default GDK screen.
Visuals with higher color depths are considered better. The return value should
not be freed. @samp{@code{#f}} may be returned if no visual has type
@var{visual-type}.

@table @var
@item visual-type
a visual type

@item ret
best visual of the given type

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-visual-get-best-with-both  (depth@tie{}@code{int}) (visual_type@tie{}@code{<gdk-visual-type>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gdk-visual>})
Combines @code{gdk-visual-get-best-with-depth} and
@code{gdk-visual-get-best-with-type}.

@table @var
@item depth
a bit depth

@item visual-type
a visual type

@item ret
best visual with both @var{depth} and @var{visual-type}, or @samp{@code{#f}} if
none

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-visual-get-screen  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-visual>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gdk-screen>})
@deffnx Method get-screen
Gets the screen to which this visual belongs

@table @var
@item visual
a @code{<gdk-visual>}

@item ret
the screen to which this visual belongs.

@end table

Since 2.2

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
