
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gdk-gc>
This @code{<gobject>} class defines no properties, other than those defined by
its superclasses.

@end deftp

@deffn Function gdk-gc-new  (drawable@tie{}@code{<gdk-drawable>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gdk-gc>})
Create a new graphics context with default values.

@table @var
@item drawable
a @code{<gdk-drawable>}. The created GC must always be used with drawables of
the same depth as this one.

@item ret
the new graphics context.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-gc-new-with-values  (drawable@tie{}@code{<gdk-drawable>}) (values@tie{}@code{<gdk-gc-values*>}) (values_mask@tie{}@code{<gdk-gc-values-mask>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gdk-gc>})
Create a new GC with the given initial values.

@table @var
@item drawable
a @code{<gdk-drawable>}. The created GC must always be used with drawables of
the same depth as this one.

@item values
a structure containing initial values for the GC.

@item values-mask
a bit mask indicating which fields in @var{values} are set.

@item ret
the new graphics context.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-gc-get-screen  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-gc>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gdk-screen>})
@deffnx Method get-screen
Gets the @code{<gdk-screen>} for which @var{gc} was created

@table @var
@item gc
a @code{<gdk-gc>}.

@item ret
the @code{<gdk-screen>} for @var{gc}.

@end table

Since 2.2

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-gc-set-values  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-gc>}) (values@tie{}@code{<gdk-gc-values*>}) (values_mask@tie{}@code{<gdk-gc-values-mask>})
@deffnx Method set-values
Sets attributes of a graphics context in bulk. For each flag set in
@var{values-mask}, the corresponding field will be read from @var{values} and
set as the new value for @var{gc}. If you're only setting a few values on
@var{gc}, calling individual "setter" functions is likely more convenient.

@table @var
@item gc
a @code{<gdk-gc>}

@item values
struct containing the new values

@item values-mask
mask indicating which struct fields are to be used

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-gc-get-values  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-gc>}) (values@tie{}@code{<gdk-gc-values*>})
@deffnx Method get-values
Retrieves the current values from a graphics context. Note that only the pixel
values of the @var{values->foreground} and @var{values->background} are filled,
use @code{gdk-colormap-query-color} to obtain the rgb values if you need them.

@table @var
@item gc
a @code{<gdk-gc>}.

@item values
the @code{<gdk-gc-values>} structure in which to store the results.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-gc-set-foreground  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-gc>}) (color@tie{}@code{<gdk-color>})
@deffnx Method set-foreground
Sets the foreground color for a graphics context. Note that this function uses
@var{color->pixel}, use @code{gdk-gc-set-rgb-fg-color} to specify the foreground
color as red, green, blue components.

@table @var
@item gc
a @code{<gdk-gc>}.

@item color
the new foreground color.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-gc-set-background  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-gc>}) (color@tie{}@code{<gdk-color>})
@deffnx Method set-background
Sets the background color for a graphics context. Note that this function uses
@var{color->pixel}, use @code{gdk-gc-set-rgb-bg-color} to specify the background
color as red, green, blue components.

@table @var
@item gc
a @code{<gdk-gc>}.

@item color
the new background color.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-gc-set-rgb-fg-color  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-gc>}) (color@tie{}@code{<gdk-color>})
@deffnx Method set-rgb-fg-color
Set the foreground color of a GC using an unallocated color. The pixel value for
the color will be determined using GdkRGB. If the colormap for the GC has not
previously been initialized for GdkRGB, then for pseudo-color colormaps
(colormaps with a small modifiable number of colors), a colorcube will be
allocated in the colormap.

Calling this function for a GC without a colormap is an error.

@table @var
@item gc
a @code{<gdk-gc>}

@item color
an unallocated @code{<gdk-color>}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-gc-set-rgb-bg-color  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-gc>}) (color@tie{}@code{<gdk-color>})
@deffnx Method set-rgb-bg-color
Set the background color of a GC using an unallocated color. The pixel value for
the color will be determined using GdkRGB. If the colormap for the GC has not
previously been initialized for GdkRGB, then for pseudo-color colormaps
(colormaps with a small modifiable number of colors), a colorcube will be
allocated in the colormap.

Calling this function for a GC without a colormap is an error.

@table @var
@item gc
a @code{<gdk-gc>}

@item color
an unallocated @code{<gdk-color>}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-gc-set-font  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-gc>}) (font@tie{}@code{<gdk-font>})
@deffnx Method set-font
@samp{gdk_gc_set_font} is deprecated and should not be used in newly-written
code.

Sets the font for a graphics context. (Note that all text-drawing functions in
GDK take a @var{font} argument; the value set here is used when that argument is
@samp{@code{#f}}.)

@table @var
@item gc
a @code{<gdk-gc>}.

@item font
the new font.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-gc-set-function  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-gc>}) (function@tie{}@code{<gdk-function>})
@deffnx Method set-function
Determines how the current pixel values and the pixel values being drawn are
combined to produce the final pixel values.

@table @var
@item gc
a @code{<gdk-gc>}.

@item function
the @code{<gdk-function>} to use

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-gc-set-fill  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-gc>}) (fill@tie{}@code{<gdk-fill>})
@deffnx Method set-fill
Set the fill mode for a graphics context.

@table @var
@item gc
a @code{<gdk-gc>}.

@item fill
the new fill mode.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-gc-set-tile  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-gc>}) (tile@tie{}@code{<gdk-pixmap*>})
@deffnx Method set-tile
Set a tile pixmap for a graphics context. This will only be used if the fill
mode is @samp{GDK_TILED}.

@table @var
@item gc
a @code{<gdk-gc>}.

@item tile
the new tile pixmap.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-gc-set-stipple  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-gc>}) (stipple@tie{}@code{<gdk-pixmap*>})
@deffnx Method set-stipple
Set the stipple bitmap for a graphics context. The stipple will only be used if
the fill mode is @samp{GDK_STIPPLED} or @samp{GDK_OPAQUE_STIPPLED}.

@table @var
@item gc
a @code{<gdk-gc>}.

@item stipple
the new stipple bitmap.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-gc-set-ts-origin  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-gc>}) (x@tie{}@code{int}) (y@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method set-ts-origin
Set the origin when using tiles or stipples with the GC. The tile or stipple
will be aligned such that the upper left corner of the tile or stipple will
coincide with this point.

@table @var
@item gc
a @code{<gdk-gc>}.

@item x
the x-coordinate of the origin.

@item y
the y-coordinate of the origin.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-gc-set-clip-origin  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-gc>}) (x@tie{}@code{int}) (y@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method set-clip-origin
Sets the origin of the clip mask. The coordinates are interpreted relative to
the upper-left corner of the destination drawable of the current operation.

@table @var
@item gc
a @code{<gdk-gc>}.

@item x
the x-coordinate of the origin.

@item y
the y-coordinate of the origin.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-gc-set-clip-mask  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-gc>}) (mask@tie{}@code{<gdk-bitmap*>})
@deffnx Method set-clip-mask
Sets the clip mask for a graphics context from a bitmap. The clip mask is
interpreted relative to the clip origin. (See @code{gdk-gc-set-clip-origin}).

@table @var
@item gc
the @code{<gdk-gc>}.

@item mask
a bitmap.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-gc-set-clip-rectangle  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-gc>}) (rectangle@tie{}@code{<gdk-rectangle>})
@deffnx Method set-clip-rectangle
Sets the clip mask for a graphics context from a rectangle. The clip mask is
interpreted relative to the clip origin. (See @code{gdk-gc-set-clip-origin}).

@table @var
@item gc
a @code{<gdk-gc>}.

@item rectangle
the rectangle to clip to.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-gc-set-clip-region  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-gc>}) (region@tie{}@code{<gdk-region*>})
@deffnx Method set-clip-region
Sets the clip mask for a graphics context from a region structure. The clip mask
is interpreted relative to the clip origin. (See @code{gdk-gc-set-clip-origin}).

@table @var
@item gc
a @code{<gdk-gc>}.

@item region
the @code{<gdk-region>}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-gc-set-subwindow  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-gc>}) (mode@tie{}@code{<gdk-subwindow-mode>})
@deffnx Method set-subwindow
Sets how drawing with this GC on a window will affect child windows of that
window.

@table @var
@item gc
a @code{<gdk-gc>}.

@item mode
the subwindow mode.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-gc-set-exposures  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-gc>}) (exposures@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-exposures
Sets whether copying non-visible portions of a drawable using this graphics
context generate exposure events for the corresponding regions of the
destination drawable. (See @code{gdk-draw-drawable}).

@table @var
@item gc
a @code{<gdk-gc>}.

@item exposures
if @samp{@code{#t}}, exposure events will be generated.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-gc-set-line-attributes  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-gc>}) (line_width@tie{}@code{int}) (line_style@tie{}@code{<gdk-line-style>}) (cap_style@tie{}@code{<gdk-cap-style>}) (join_style@tie{}@code{<gdk-join-style>})
@deffnx Method set-line-attributes
Sets various attributes of how lines are drawn. See the corresponding members of
@code{<gdk-gc-values>} for full explanations of the arguments.

@table @var
@item gc
a @code{<gdk-gc>}.

@item line-width
the width of lines.

@item line-style
the dash-style for lines.

@item cap-style
the manner in which the ends of lines are drawn.

@item join-style
the in which lines are joined together.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-gc-set-dashes  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-gc>}) (dash_offset@tie{}@code{int}) (dash_list@tie{}@code{<gint8*>}) (n@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method set-dashes
Sets the way dashed-lines are drawn. Lines will be drawn with alternating on and
off segments of the lengths specified in @var{dash-list}. The manner in which
the on and off segments are drawn is determined by the @var{line-style} value of
the GC. (This can be changed with @code{gdk-gc-set-line-attributes}.)

The @var{dash-offset} defines the phase of the pattern, specifying how many
pixels into the dash-list the pattern should actually begin.

@table @var
@item gc
a @code{<gdk-gc>}.

@item dash-offset
the phase of the dash pattern.

@item dash-list
an array of dash lengths.

@item n
the number of elements in @var{dash-list}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-gc-set-colormap  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-gc>}) (colormap@tie{}@code{<gdk-colormap>})
@deffnx Method set-colormap
Sets the colormap for the GC to the given colormap. The depth of the colormap's
visual must match the depth of the drawable for which the GC was created.

@table @var
@item gc
a @code{<gdk-gc>}

@item colormap
a @code{<gdk-colormap>}

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-gc-get-colormap  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-gc>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gdk-colormap>})
@deffnx Method get-colormap
Retrieves the colormap for a given GC, if it exists. A GC will have a colormap
if the drawable for which it was created has a colormap, or if a colormap was
set explicitely with gdk_gc_set_colormap.

@table @var
@item gc
a @code{<gdk-gc>}

@item ret
the colormap of @var{gc}, or @samp{@code{#f}} if @var{gc} doesn't have one.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-gc-offset  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-gc>}) (x_offset@tie{}@code{int}) (y_offset@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method offset
Offset attributes such as the clip and tile-stipple origins of the GC so that
drawing at x - x_offset, y - y_offset with the offset GC has the same effect as
drawing at x, y with the original GC.

@table @var
@item gc
a @code{<gdk-gc>}

@item x-offset
amount by which to offset the GC in the X direction

@item y-offset
amount by which to offset the GC in the Y direction

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
