\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename guile-gnome-gdk.info
@settitle Guile-Gdk
@c %**end of header

@set VERSION 2.15.93
@set UPDATED 2 September 2007

@copying 
This manual is for @code{(gnome gdk)} (version @value{VERSION}, updated
@value{UPDATED})

GDK documentation Copyright 1997-2007 Damon Chaplin and others

@c from gtk+/docs/reference/COPYING
@quotation 
This work may be reproduced and distributed in whole or in part, in
any medium, physical or electronic, so as long as this copyright
notice remains intact and unchanged on all copies.  Commercial
redistribution is permitted and encouraged, but you may not
redistribute, in whole or in part, under terms more restrictive than
those under which you received it. If you redistribute a modified or
translated version of this work, you must also make the source code to
the modified or translated version available in electronic form
without charge.  However, mere aggregation as part of a larger work
shall not count as a modification for this purpose.

All code examples in this work are placed into the public domain,
and may be used, modified and redistributed without restriction.

BECAUSE THIS WORK IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO
WARRANTY FOR THE WORK, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR
OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE WORK "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.  SHOULD THE WORK PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME
THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN
WRITING WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY
AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE WORK AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU
FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE
WORK, EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE 
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
@end quotation

GDK-Pixbuf documentation Copyright 2000 Free Software Foundation.

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation with no
Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts. You
may obtain a copy of the GNU Free Documentation License from the Free
Software Foundation by visiting their Web site or by writing to:

  The Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
  59 Temple Place - Suite 330,
  Boston, MA 02111-1307,
  USA

Many of the names used by companies to distinguish their products and
services are claimed as trademarks. Where those names appear in any
GNOME documentation, and those trademarks are made aware to the
members of the GNOME Documentation Project, the names have been
printed in caps or initial caps.
@end quotation

@end copying

@dircategory The Algorithmic Language Scheme
@direntry 
* Guile-Gdk: (guile-gnome-gdk.info).  The GIMP Drawing Kit.
@end direntry

@titlepage 
@title Guile-GNOME: Gdk
@subtitle version @value{VERSION}, updated @value{UPDATED}
@author Damon Chaplin
@author many others
@page 
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying 
@end titlepage

@ifnottex 
@node Top
@top Guile-Gdk

@insertcopying 
@menu
* Overview:: Overview

GDK
* General:: Library initialization and miscellaneous functions
* GdkDisplay:: Controls the keyboard/mouse pointer grabs and a set of s
* GdkDisplayManager:: Maintains a list of all open s
* GdkScreen:: Object representing a physical screen
* Points Rectangles and Regions:: Simple graphical data types
* Graphics Contexts:: Objects to encapsulate drawing properties
* Drawing Primitives:: Functions for drawing points, lines, arcs, and text
* Bitmaps and Pixmaps:: Offscreen drawables
* GdkRGB:: Renders RGB, grayscale, or indexed image data to a GdkDrawable
* Images:: A client-side area for bit-mapped graphics
* Pixbufs:: Functions for rendering pixbufs on drawables
* Colormaps and Colors:: Manipulation of colors and colormaps
* Visuals:: Low-level display hardware information
* Fonts:: Loading and manipulating fonts
* Cursors:: Standard and pixmap cursors
* Windows:: Onscreen display areas in the target window system
* Events:: Functions for handling events from the window system
* Event Structures:: Data structures specific to each type of event
* Key Values:: Functions for manipulating keyboard codes
* Selections:: Functions for transfering data via the X selection mechanism
* Drag and Drop:: Functions for controlling drag and drop handling
* Properties and Atoms:: Functions to manipulate properties on windows
* Threads:: Functions for using GDK in multi-threaded programs
* Input:: Callbacks on file descriptors
* Input Devices:: Functions for handling extended input devices
* Pango Interaction:: Using Pango in GDK
* Cairo Interaction:: Functions to support using Cairo
* X Window System Interaction:: X backend-specific functions

GDK-Pixbuf
* Initialization and Versions:: Library version numbers.
* The GdkPixbuf Structure:: Information that describes an image.
* Reference Counting and Memory Mangement:: Functions for reference counting and memory management on pixbufs.
* File Loading:: Loading a pixbuf from a file.
* File saving:: Saving a pixbuf to a file.
* Image Data in Memory:: Creating a pixbuf from image data that is already in memory.
* Inline data:: Functions for inlined pixbuf handling.
* Scaling:: Scaling pixbufs and scaling and compositing pixbufs
* Utilities:: Utility and miscellaneous convenience functions.
* Animations:: Animated images.
* GdkPixbufLoader:: Application-driven progressive image loading.
* Module Interface:: Extending gdk-pixbuf
* gdk-pixbuf Xlib initialization:: Initializing the gdk-pixbuf Xlib library.
* Xlib Rendering:: Rendering a pixbuf to an X drawable.
* X Drawables to Pixbufs:: Getting parts of an X drawable's image data into a pixbuf.
* XlibRGB:: Rendering RGB buffers to X drawables.

* Concept Index::
* Function Index::
@end menu

@end ifnottex

@iftex 
@shortcontents 
@end iftex

@include overview.texi

@include section-general.xml.texi
@include section-gdkdisplay.xml.texi
@include section-gdkdisplaymanager.xml.texi
@include section-gdkscreen.xml.texi
@include section-regions.xml.texi
@include section-gcs.xml.texi
@include section-drawing.xml.texi
@include section-pixmaps.xml.texi
@include section-rgb.xml.texi
@include section-images.xml.texi
@include section-pixbufs.xml.texi
@include section-colors.xml.texi
@include section-visuals.xml.texi
@include section-fonts.xml.texi
@include section-cursors.xml.texi
@include section-windows.xml.texi
@include section-events.xml.texi
@include section-event_structs.xml.texi
@include section-keys.xml.texi
@include section-selections.xml.texi
@include section-dnd.xml.texi
@include section-properties.xml.texi
@include section-threads.xml.texi
@include section-input.xml.texi
@include section-input_devices.xml.texi
@include section-pango_interaction.xml.texi
@include section-cairo_interaction.xml.texi
@include section-x_interaction.xml.texi

@include section-initialization_versions.xml.texi
@include section-gdk-pixbuf.xml.texi
@include section-refcounting.xml.texi
@include section-file-loading.xml.texi
@include section-file-saving.xml.texi
@include section-creating.xml.texi
@include section-inline.xml.texi
@include section-scaling.xml.texi
@include section-util.xml.texi
@include section-animation.xml.texi
@include section-gdk-pixbuf-loader.xml.texi
@include section-module_interface.xml.texi
@include section-gdk-pixbuf-xlib-init.xml.texi
@include section-gdk-pixbuf-xlib-rendering.xml.texi
@include section-gdk-pixbuf-xlib-from-drawables.xml.texi
@include section-gdk-pixbuf-xlib-rgb.xml.texi

@node Concept Index
@unnumbered Concept Index
@printindex cp
@node Function Index
@unnumbered Function Index
@printindex fn
@bye
