
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <atk-value>
Derives from @code{<ginterface>}.

This class defines no direct slots.

@end deftp

@deffn Function atk-value-get-current-value  (self@tie{}@code{<atk-value>}) (value@tie{}@code{<gvalue>})
@deffnx Method get-current-value
Gets the value of this object.

@table @var
@item obj
a GObject instance that implements AtkValueIface

@item value
a @code{<gvalue>} representing the current accessible value

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-value-get-maximum-value  (self@tie{}@code{<atk-value>}) (value@tie{}@code{<gvalue>})
@deffnx Method get-maximum-value
Gets the maximum value of this object.

@table @var
@item obj
a GObject instance that implements AtkValueIface

@item value
a @code{<gvalue>} representing the maximum accessible value

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-value-get-minimum-value  (self@tie{}@code{<atk-value>}) (value@tie{}@code{<gvalue>})
@deffnx Method get-minimum-value
Gets the minimum value of this object.

@table @var
@item obj
a GObject instance that implements AtkValueIface

@item value
a @code{<gvalue>} representing the minimum accessible value

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-value-set-current-value  (self@tie{}@code{<atk-value>}) (value@tie{}@code{<gvalue>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-current-value
Sets the value of this object.

@table @var
@item obj
a GObject instance that implements AtkValueIface

@item value
a @code{<gvalue>} which is the desired new accessible value.

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if new value is successfully set, @samp{@code{#f}} otherwise.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-value-get-minimum-increment  (self@tie{}@code{<atk-value>}) (value@tie{}@code{<gvalue>})
@deffnx Method get-minimum-increment
Gets the minimum increment by which the value of this object may be changed. If
zero, the minimum increment is undefined, which may mean that it is limited only
by the floating point precision of the platform.

@table @var
@item obj
a GObject instance that implements AtkValueIface

@item value
a @code{<gvalue>} representing the minimum increment by which the accessible
value may be changed

@end table

Since ATK 1.12

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
