\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename guile-gnome-gnome-vfs.info
@settitle Guile-GNOME-VFS
@c %**end of header

@include version.texi

@copying 
This manual is for @code{(gnome vfs)} (version @value{VERSION}, updated
@value{UPDATED})

Copyright 2001-2007 The Free Software Foundation, Christophe Fergeau,
Christian Neumair

@quotation 
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
@end quotation

@end copying

@dircategory The Algorithmic Language Scheme
@direntry 
* Guile-GNOME-VFS: (guile-gnome-gnome-vfs.info).  The GNOME virtual file system.
@end direntry

@titlepage 
@title Guile-GNOME: GNOME-VFS
@subtitle version @value{VERSION}, updated @value{UPDATED}
@author The Free Software Foundation
@author Christophe Fergeau
@author Christian Neumair
@page 
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying 
@end titlepage

@ifnottex 
@node Top
@top Guile-GNOME-VFS

@insertcopying 
@menu
* Overview::               About GNOME-VFS and its Guile bindings.

Basic Data Types

* GnomeVFSResult:: Result of I/O operations, the equivalent of errno
* GnomeVFSURI:: A uniform resource identifier.
* gnome-vfs-utils:: various utilities functions to manipulate uris
* GnomeVFSFileInfo:: stores information about files, GnomeVFS equivalent of stat

File Operations

* Basic File Operations:: Essential VFS operations. This includes creating, moving and deleting files,
* Truncating Files:: Force files to a particular length
* Getting and Setting File Information:: Convenient high-level abstraction for obtaining and setting file information,

Directory-Specific Operations

* Basic Directory Operations:: Creating and removing directories.

Volumes and Drives Handling

* GnomeVFSVolume:: Abstraction for a mounted file system or a network location.
* GnomeVFSDrive:: Container for GnomeVFSVolume (floppy drive, CD reader, ...)
* GnomeVFSVolumeMonitor:: Monitors volume mounts and unmounts

MIME Registry

* MIME typing:: functions to get a mime-type for a file using its name or its content
* gnome-vfs-mime-utils:: 
* MIME Database:: functions for getting information about applications and components associated

* Undocumented::           Undocumented functions.

* Type Index::
* Function Index::
@end menu

@end ifnottex

@iftex 
@shortcontents 
@end iftex

@include overview.texi

@include section-gnome-vfs-result.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-vfs-uri.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-vfs-utils.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-vfs-file-info.xml.texi

@include section-gnome-vfs-file-basic-ops.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-vfs-file-trunc-ops.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-vfs-file-info-ops.xml.texi

@include section-gnome-vfs-directory-basic-ops.xml.texi

@include section-gnome-vfs-volume.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-vfs-drive.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-vfs-volume-monitor.xml.texi

@include section-gnome-vfs-mime.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-vfs-mime-utils.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-vfs-mime-database.xml.texi

@include undocumented.texi

@node Type Index
@unnumbered Type Index
@printindex tp
@node Function Index
@unnumbered Function Index
@printindex fn
@bye
