\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename guile-gnome-glib.info
@settitle Guile-GLib
@c %**end of header

@set VERSION 2.15.98
@set UPDATED 24 April 2008

@copying 
This manual is for @code{(gnome glib)} (version @value{VERSION}, updated
@value{UPDATED})

Copyright 1999-2007 Owen Taylor, Matthias Clasen and others

@c License taken from glib/docs/reference/COPYING
@quotation 
This work may be reproduced and distributed in whole or in part, in
any medium, physical or electronic, so as long as this copyright
notice remains intact and unchanged on all copies.  Commercial
redistribution is permitted and encouraged, but you may not
redistribute, in whole or in part, under terms more restrictive than
those under which you received it. If you redistribute a modified or
translated version of this work, you must also make the source code to
the modified or translated version available in electronic form
without charge.  However, mere aggregation as part of a larger work
shall not count as a modification for this purpose.

All code examples in this work are placed into the public domain,
and may be used, modified and redistributed without restriction.

BECAUSE THIS WORK IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO
WARRANTY FOR THE WORK, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR
OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE WORK "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.  SHOULD THE WORK PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME
THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN
WRITING WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY
AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE WORK AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU
FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE
WORK, EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE 
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
@end quotation

@end copying

@dircategory The Algorithmic Language Scheme
@direntry 
* Guile-GLib: (guile-gnome-glib.info).  Functions from the GLib library.
@end direntry

@titlepage 
@title Guile-GNOME: GLib
@subtitle version @value{VERSION}, updated @value{UPDATED}
@author Owen Taylor
@author Matthias Clasen
@author Andy Wingo
@author (many others)
@page 
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying 
@end titlepage

@ifnottex 
@node Top
@top Guile-GLib

@insertcopying 
@menu
* Bookmark file parser::      Parse files containing bookmarks
* Character Set Conversion::  Convert strings between different character sets using iconv.
* File Utilities::            Various file-related functions.
* IO Channels::               Portable support for using files, pipes and sockets.
* The Main Event Loop::       Manages all available sources of events.
* Miscellaneous Utility Functions::A selection of portable utility functions.
* Quarks::                    Symbols for C.
* Shell-related Utilities::   Escape procedures.
* Strings::                   Text buffers which grow automatically as text is added.
* Unicode Manipulation::      Functions operating on Unicode characters and UTF-8 strings.

* Undocumented::              Undocumented functions.

* Type Index::
* Function Index::
@end menu

@end ifnottex

@iftex 
@shortcontents 
@end iftex

@include section-bookmarkfile.xml.texi
@include section-conversions.xml.texi
@include section-fileutils.xml.texi
@include section-iochannels.xml.texi
@include section-main.xml.texi
@include section-misc_utils.xml.texi
@include section-quarks.xml.texi
@include section-shell.xml.texi
@include section-strings.xml.texi
@include section-unicode.xml.texi

@include undocumented.texi

@node Type Index
@unnumbered Type Index
@printindex tp
@node Function Index
@unnumbered Function Index
@printindex fn
@bye
