
@c %start of fragment

@deffn Function gdk-selection-owner-set  (owner@tie{}@code{<gdk-window>}) (selection@tie{}@code{<gdk-atom>}) (time_@tie{}@code{unsigned-int32}) (send_event@tie{}@code{bool}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
Sets the owner of the given selection.

@table @var
@item owner
a @code{<gdk-window>} or @samp{@code{#f}} to indicate that the the owner for the
given should be unset.

@item selection
an atom identifying a selection.

@item time
timestamp to use when setting the selection. If this is older than the timestamp
given last time the owner was set for the given selection, the request will be
ignored.

@item send-event
if @samp{@code{#t}}, and the new owner is different from the current owner, the
current owner will be sent a SelectionClear event.

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if the selection owner was successfully changed to @var{owner},
otherwise @samp{@code{#f}}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-selection-owner-set-for-display  (display@tie{}@code{<gdk-display>}) (owner@tie{}@code{<gdk-window>}) (selection@tie{}@code{<gdk-atom>}) (time_@tie{}@code{unsigned-int32}) (send_event@tie{}@code{bool}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
Sets the @code{<gdk-window>}@var{owner} as the current owner of the selection
@var{selection}.

@table @var
@item display
the @code{<gdk-display>}.

@item owner
a @code{<gdk-window>} or @samp{@code{#f}} to indicate that the owner for the
given should be unset.

@item selection
an atom identifying a selection.

@item time
timestamp to use when setting the selection. If this is older than the timestamp
given last time the owner was set for the given selection, the request will be
ignored.

@item send-event
if @samp{@code{#t}}, and the new owner is different from the current owner, the
current owner will be sent a SelectionClear event.

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if the selection owner was successfully changed to owner,
otherwise @samp{@code{#f}}.

@end table

Since 2.2

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-selection-owner-get  (selection@tie{}@code{<gdk-atom>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gdk-window>})
Determines the owner of the given selection.

@table @var
@item selection
an atom indentifying a selection.

@item ret
if there is a selection owner for this window, and it is a window known to the
current process, the @code{<gdk-window>} that owns the selection, otherwise
@samp{@code{#f}}. Note that the return value may be owned by a different process
if a foreign window was previously created for that window, but a new foreign
window will never be created by this call.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-selection-owner-get-for-display  (display@tie{}@code{<gdk-display>}) (selection@tie{}@code{<gdk-atom>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gdk-window>})
Determine the owner of the given selection.

Note that the return value may be owned by a different process if a foreign
window was previously created for that window, but a new foreign window will
never be created by this call.

@table @var
@item display
a @code{<gdk-display>}.

@item selection
an atom indentifying a selection.

@item ret
if there is a selection owner for this window, and it is a window known to the
current process, the @code{<gdk-window>} that owns the selection, otherwise
@samp{@code{#f}}.

@end table

Since 2.2

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-selection-convert  (requestor@tie{}@code{<gdk-window>}) (selection@tie{}@code{<gdk-atom>}) (target@tie{}@code{<gdk-atom>}) (time_@tie{}@code{unsigned-int32})
Retrieves the contents of a selection in a given form.

@table @var
@item requestor
a @code{<gdk-window>}.

@item selection
an atom identifying the selection to get the contents of.

@item target
the form in which to retrieve the selection.

@item time
the timestamp to use when retrieving the selection. The selection owner may
refuse the request if it did not own the selection at the time indicated by the
timestamp.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-selection-send-notify  (requestor@tie{}@code{unsigned-int32}) (selection@tie{}@code{<gdk-atom>}) (target@tie{}@code{<gdk-atom>}) (property@tie{}@code{<gdk-atom>}) (time_@tie{}@code{unsigned-int32})
Sends a response to SelectionRequest event.

@table @var
@item requestor
window to which to deliver response.

@item selection
selection that was requested.

@item target
target that was selected.

@item property
property in which the selection owner stored the data, or @samp{GDK_NONE} to
indicate that the request was rejected.

@item time
timestamp.

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
