
@c %start of fragment

@deffn Function gdk-pixmap-new  (drawable@tie{}@code{<gdk-drawable>}) (width@tie{}@code{int}) (height@tie{}@code{int}) (depth@tie{}@code{int}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gdk-pixmap>})
Create a new pixmap with a given size and depth.

@table @var
@item drawable
A @code{<gdk-drawable>}, used to determine default values for the new pixmap.
Can be @samp{@code{#f}} if @var{depth} is specified,

@item width
The width of the new pixmap in pixels.

@item height
The height of the new pixmap in pixels.

@item depth
The depth (number of bits per pixel) of the new pixmap. If -1, and
@var{drawable} is not @samp{@code{#f}}, the depth of the new pixmap will be
equal to that of @var{drawable}.

@item ret
the @code{<gdk-pixmap>}

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-bitmap-create-from-data  (drawable@tie{}@code{<gdk-drawable>}) (data@tie{}@code{mchars}) (width@tie{}@code{int}) (height@tie{}@code{int}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gdk-drawable>})
Creates a new bitmap from data in XBM format.

@table @var
@item drawable
a @code{<gdk-drawable>}, used to determine default values for the new pixmap.
Can be @samp{@code{#f}}, in which case the root window is used.

@item data
a pointer to the XBM data.

@item width
the width of the new pixmap in pixels.

@item height
the height of the new pixmap in pixels.

@item ret
the @code{<gdk-bitmap>}

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gdk-pixmap-create-from-data  (drawable@tie{}@code{<gdk-drawable>}) (data@tie{}@code{mchars}) (width@tie{}@code{int}) (height@tie{}@code{int}) (depth@tie{}@code{int}) (fg@tie{}@code{<gdk-color>}) (bg@tie{}@code{<gdk-color>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gdk-pixmap>})
Create a two-color pixmap from data in XBM data.

@table @var
@item drawable
a @code{<gdk-drawable>}, used to determine default values for the new pixmap.
Can be @samp{@code{#f}}, if the depth is given.

@item data
a pointer to the data.

@item width
the width of the new pixmap in pixels.

@item height
the height of the new pixmap in pixels.

@item depth
the depth (number of bits per pixel) of the new pixmap.

@item fg
the foreground color.

@item bg
the background color.

@item ret
the @code{<gdk-pixmap>}

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
