
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gnome-icon-text-item>
This @code{<gobject>} class defines no properties, other than those defined by
its superclasses.

@end deftp

@defop Signal <gnome-icon-text-item> text-changed  @result{}@tie{}@code{<gboolean>}
@end defop

@defop Signal <gnome-icon-text-item> height-changed 
@end defop

@defop Signal <gnome-icon-text-item> width-changed 
@end defop

@defop Signal <gnome-icon-text-item> editing-started 
@end defop

@defop Signal <gnome-icon-text-item> editing-stopped 
@end defop

@defop Signal <gnome-icon-text-item> selection-started 
@end defop

@defop Signal <gnome-icon-text-item> selection-stopped 
@end defop

@deffn Function gnome-icon-text-item-configure  (self@tie{}@code{<gnome-icon-text-item>}) (x@tie{}@code{int}) (y@tie{}@code{int}) (width@tie{}@code{int}) (fontname@tie{}@code{mchars}) (text@tie{}@code{mchars}) (is_editable@tie{}@code{bool}) (is_static@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method configure
@samp{gnome_icon_text_item_configure} is deprecated and should not be used in
newly-written code.

This routine is used to configure a &GnomeIconTextItem.

@var{x} and @var{y} specify the cordinates where the item is placed inside the
canvas. The @var{x} coordinate should be the leftmost position that the icon
text item can assume at any one time, that is, the left margin of the column in
which the icon is to be placed. The @var{y} coordinate specifies the top of the
icon text item.

@var{width} is the maximum width allowed for this icon text item. The
coordinates define the upper-left corner of an icon text item with maximum
width; this may actually be outside the bounding box of the item if the text is
narrower than the maximum width.

If @var{is-static} is true, it means that there is no need for the item to
allocate memory for the string (it is a guarantee that the text is allocated by
the caller and it will not be deallocated during the lifetime of this item).
This is an optimization to reduce memory usage for large icon sets.

@table @var
@item iti
An icon text item.

@item x
X position in which to place the item.

@item y
Y position in which to place the item.

@item width
Maximum width allowed for this item, to be used for word wrapping.

@item fontname
Ignored.

@item text
Text that is going to be displayed.

@item is-editable
Deprecated.

@item is-static
Whether @var{text} points to a static string or not.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-icon-text-item-setxy  (self@tie{}@code{<gnome-icon-text-item>}) (x@tie{}@code{int}) (y@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method setxy
@samp{gnome_icon_text_item_setxy} is deprecated and should not be used in
newly-written code.

Sets the coordinates at which the icon text item should be placed.

See also: @code{gnome-icon-text-item-configure}.

@table @var
@item iti
An icon text item.

@item x
X position.

@item y
Y position.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-icon-text-item-select  (self@tie{}@code{<gnome-icon-text-item>}) (sel@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method select
@samp{gnome_icon_text_item_select} is deprecated and should not be used in
newly-written code.

This function is used to control whether an icon text item is displayed as
selected or not. Mouse events are ignored by the item when it is unselected;
when the user clicks on a selected icon text item, it will start the text
editing process.

@table @var
@item iti
An icon text item

@item sel
Whether the icon text item should be displayed as selected.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-icon-text-item-focus  (self@tie{}@code{<gnome-icon-text-item>}) (focused@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method focus
@samp{gnome_icon_text_item_focus} is deprecated and should not be used in
newly-written code.

Sets or unsets the focus on the icon text item depending on @var{focused}.

@table @var
@item iti
An icon text item.

@item focused
whether to set or unset the icon text item focus.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-icon-text-item-get-text  (self@tie{}@code{<gnome-icon-text-item>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-text
@samp{gnome_icon_text_item_get_text} is deprecated and should not be used in
newly-written code.

@table @var
@item iti
An icon text item.

@item ret
the current text string in an icon text item. The client should not free this
string, as it is internal to the icon text item.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-icon-text-item-start-editing  (self@tie{}@code{<gnome-icon-text-item>})
@deffnx Method start-editing
@samp{gnome_icon_text_item_start_editing} is deprecated and should not be used
in newly-written code.

Starts the editing state of an icon text item.

@table @var
@item iti
An icon text item.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-icon-text-item-stop-editing  (self@tie{}@code{<gnome-icon-text-item>}) (accept@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method stop-editing
@samp{gnome_icon_text_item_stop_editing} is deprecated and should not be used in
newly-written code.

Terminates the editing state of an icon text item. The @var{accept} argument
controls whether the item's current text should be accepted or discarded. If it
is discarded, then the icon's original text will be restored.

@table @var
@item iti
An icon text item.

@item accept
Whether to accept the current text or to discard it.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-icon-text-item-get-editable  (self@tie{}@code{<gnome-icon-text-item>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-editable>})
@deffnx Method get-editable
@samp{gnome_icon_text_item_get_editable} is deprecated and should not be used in
newly-written code.

Retrieves the entry widget associated with the icon text.

@table @var
@item iti
An icon text item.

@item ret
a @code{<gtk-editable>} if the entry widget is initialised, NULL otherwise.

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
