
@c %start of fragment

@deffn Function gnome-vfs-mime-type-from-name  (filename@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@samp{gnome_vfs_mime_type_from_name} is deprecated and should not be used in
newly-written code. This function is deprecated, use
@code{gnome-vfs-get-mime-type-for-name} instead.

Determine the mime type for @var{filename}.

Returns:

@table @var
@item filename
a filename (the file does not necessarily exist).

@item ret
the mime-type for this filename. Will return @samp{GNOME_VFS_MIME_TYPE_UNKNOWN}
if mime-type could not be found.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-vfs-get-mime-type-common  (uri@tie{}@code{<gnome-vfsuri*>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
Tries to guess the mime type of the file represented by @var{uri}. Favors using
the file data to the @var{uri} extension. Handles @var{uri} of a non-existent
file by falling back on returning a type based on the extension. If cant find
the mime-type based on the extension also then returns
'application/octet-stream'.

FIXME: This function will not necessarily return the same mime type as doing a
get file info on the text uri.

@table @var
@item uri
a real file or a non-existent uri.

@item ret
the mime-type for @var{uri}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-vfs-get-mime-type-from-uri  (uri@tie{}@code{<gnome-vfsuri*>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
Tries to guess the mime type of the file @var{uri} by checking the file name
extension. Works on non-existent files.

@table @var
@item uri
a file uri.

@item ret
the mime-type for file at @var{uri}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-vfs-get-file-mime-type-fast  (path@tie{}@code{mchars}) (optional_stat_info@tie{}@code{<gpointer>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
Tries to guess the mime type of the file represented by @var{path}. It uses
extention/name detection first, and if that fails it falls back to mime-magic
based lookup. This is faster than always doing mime-magic but doesn't always
produce the right answer, so for important decisions you should use
@code{gnome-vfs-get-file-mime-type}.

@table @var
@item path
path of the file whose mime type is to be found out.

@item optional-stat-info
optional stat buffer.

@item ret
the mime-type for file at @var{path}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-vfs-get-file-mime-type  (path@tie{}@code{mchars}) (optional_stat_info@tie{}@code{<gpointer>}) (suffix_only@tie{}@code{bool}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
Tries to guess the mime type of the file represented by @var{path}. If
@var{suffix-only} is false, uses the mime-magic based lookup first. Handles
@var{path} of a non-existent file by falling back on returning a type based on
the extension.

If you need a faster, less accurate version, use
@code{gnome-vfs-get-file-mime-type-fast}.

@table @var
@item path
path of a file whose mime type is to be found out.

@item optional-stat-info
optional stat buffer.

@item suffix-only
whether or not to do a magic-based lookup.

@item ret
the mime-type for file at @var{path}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-vfs-mime-type-is-supertype  (mime_type@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@table @var
@item mime-type
a const char * identifying a mime type.

@item ret
Whether @var{mime-type} is of the form "foo@samp{/}*".

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-vfs-mime-info-cache-reload  (dir@tie{}@code{mchars})
Reload the mime information for the @var{dir}.

@table @var
@item dir
directory path which needs reloading.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-vfs-mime-reload 
Reload the MIME database.

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-vfs-mime-shutdown 
@samp{gnome_vfs_mime_shutdown} is deprecated and should not be used in
newly-written code. This function doesn't have to be called as the operating
system automatically cleans up resources when exiting.

Unload the MIME database from memory.

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
