
@c %start of fragment

@deffn Function gnome-vfs-mime-type-is-equal  (a@tie{}@code{mchars}) (b@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
Compares two mime types to determine if they are equivalent. They are equivalent
if and only if they refer to the same mime type.

@table @var
@item a
a const char * containing a mime type, e.g. "image/png".

@item b
a const char * containing a mime type, e.g. "image/png".

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}}, if a and b are equivalent mime types.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-vfs-get-mime-type-for-name  (filename@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
Determine the mime type for @var{filename}. The file @var{filename} may not
exist, this function does not access the actual file. If the mime-type cannot be
determined, @samp{GNOME_VFS_MIME_TYPE_UNKNOWN} is returned.

@table @var
@item filename
a filename.

@item ret
the mime-type for this filename or @samp{GNOME_VFS_MIME_TYPE_UNKNOWN} if
mime-type could not be determined.

@end table

Since 2.14

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-vfs-get-mime-type  (text_uri@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
Determine the mime type of @var{text-uri}. The mime type is determined in the
same way as by @code{gnome-vfs-get-file-info}. This is meant as a convenient
function for times when you only want the mime type.

@table @var
@item text-uri
path of the file for which to get the mime type.

@item ret
The mime type, or @samp{@code{#f}} if there is an error reading the file.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-vfs-get-slow-mime-type  (text_uri@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
Determine the mime type of @var{text-uri}. The mime type is determined in the
same way as by @code{gnome-vfs-get-file-info}. This is meant as a convenience
function for times when you only want the mime type.

@table @var
@item text-uri
URI of the file for which to get the mime type

@item ret
The mime type, or NULL if there is an error reading the file.

@end table

Since 2.14

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
