
@c %start of fragment

@deffn Function gnome-vfs-get-file-info  (text_uri@tie{}@code{mchars}) (info@tie{}@code{<gnome-vfs-file-info>}) (options@tie{}@code{<gnome-vfs-file-info-options>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gnome-vfs-result>})
Retrieve information about @var{text-uri}. The information will be stored in
@var{info}.

@table @var
@item text-uri
uri of the file for which information will be retrieved.

@item info
pointer to a @code{<gnome-vfs-file-info>} object that will hold the information
for the file on return.

@item options
options for retrieving file information.

@item ret
an integer representing the result of the operation.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-vfs-set-file-info  (text_uri@tie{}@code{mchars}) (info@tie{}@code{<gnome-vfs-file-info>}) (mask@tie{}@code{<gnome-vfs-set-file-info-mask>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gnome-vfs-result>})
Set file information for @var{uri}; only the information for which the
corresponding bit in @var{mask} is set is actually modified.

@cartouche 
@var{info}'s @samp{valid_fields} is not required to contain the
@code{<gnome-vfs-file-info-fields>} corresponding to the specified 
@code{<gnome-vfs-set-file-info-mask>} fields of @var{mask}. It
is assumed that the @var{info} fields referenced by @var{mask}
are valid.
@end cartouche

@table @var
@item text-uri
string representing the file location.

@item info
information that must be set for the file.

@item mask
bit mask representing which fields of @var{info} need to be set.

@item ret
an integer representing the result of the operation.

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
