
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gnome-date-edit>
This @code{<gobject>} class defines the following properties:

@table @code
@item time
The time currently selected

@item dateedit-flags
Flags for how DateEdit looks

@item lower-hour
Lower hour in the time popup selector

@item upper-hour
Upper hour in the time popup selector

@item initial-time
The initial time

@end table

@end deftp

@defop Signal <gnome-date-edit> time-changed 
@end defop

@defop Signal <gnome-date-edit> date-changed 
@end defop

@deffn Function gnome-date-edit-new  (the_time@tie{}@code{long}) (show_time@tie{}@code{bool}) (use_24_format@tie{}@code{bool}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new @code{<gnome-date-edit>} widget which can be used to provide an
easy to use way for entering dates and times. If @var{the-time} is 0 then
current time is used.

@table @var
@item the-time
date and time to be displayed on the widget

@item show-time
whether time should be displayed

@item use-24-format
whether 24-hour format is desired for the time display.

@item ret
a new @code{<gnome-date-edit>} widget.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-date-edit-new-flags  (the_time@tie{}@code{long}) (flags@tie{}@code{<gnome-date-edit-flags>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new @code{<gnome-date-edit>} widget with the specified flags. If
@var{the-time} is 0 then current time is used.

@table @var
@item the-time
The initial time for the date editor.

@item flags
A bitmask of GnomeDateEditFlags values.

@item ret
the newly-created date editor widget.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-date-edit-construct  (self@tie{}@code{<gnome-date-edit>}) (the_time@tie{}@code{long}) (flags@tie{}@code{<gnome-date-edit-flags>})
@deffnx Method construct
For language bindings and subclassing only

@table @var
@item gde
The @code{<gnome-date-edit>} object to construct

@item the-time
The initial time for the date editor.

@item flags
A bitmask of GnomeDateEditFlags values.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-date-edit-set-time  (self@tie{}@code{<gnome-date-edit>}) (the_time@tie{}@code{long})
@deffnx Method set-time
Changes the displayed date and time in the GnomeDateEdit widget to be the one
represented by @var{the-time}. If @var{the-time} is 0 then current time is used.

@table @var
@item gde
the GnomeDateEdit widget

@item the-time
The time and date that should be set on the widget

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-date-edit-get-time  (self@tie{}@code{<gnome-date-edit>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{long})
@deffnx Method get-time
@table @var
@item gde
The GnomeDateEdit widget

@item ret
the time entered in the GnomeDateEdit widget

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-date-edit-set-popup-range  (self@tie{}@code{<gnome-date-edit>}) (low_hour@tie{}@code{int}) (up_hour@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method set-popup-range
Sets the range of times that will be provide by the time popup selectors.

@table @var
@item gde
The GnomeDateEdit widget

@item low-hour
low boundary for the time-range display popup.

@item up-hour
upper boundary for the time-range display popup.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-date-edit-set-flags  (self@tie{}@code{<gnome-date-edit>}) (flags@tie{}@code{<gnome-date-edit-flags>})
@deffnx Method set-flags
Changes the display flags on an existing date editor widget.

@table @var
@item gde
The date editor widget whose flags should be changed.

@item flags
The new bitmask of GnomeDateEditFlags values.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-date-edit-get-flags  (self@tie{}@code{<gnome-date-edit>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-flags
Queries the display flags on a date editor widget.

@table @var
@item gde
The date editor whose flags should be queried.

@item ret
The current display flags for the specified date editor widget.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-date-edit-get-initial-time  (self@tie{}@code{<gnome-date-edit>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{long})
@deffnx Method get-initial-time
Queries the initial time that was set using the
@code{<gnome-date-edit-set-time>} or during creation

@table @var
@item gde
The date editor whose initial time should be queried

@item ret
The initial time in seconds (standard time_t format)

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
