
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <atk-streamable-content>
Derives from @code{<ginterface>}.

This class defines no properties, other than those defined by its superclasses.

@end deftp

@deffn Function atk-streamable-content-get-stream  (self@tie{}@code{<atk-streamable-content>}) (mime_type@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gio-channel>})
@deffnx Method get-stream
Gets the content in the specified mime type.

@table @var
@item streamable
a GObject instance that implements AtkStreamableContentIface

@item mime-type
a gchar* representing the mime type

@item ret
A @code{<gio-channel>} which contains the content in the specified mime type.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-streamable-content-get-uri  (self@tie{}@code{<atk-streamable-content>}) (mime_type@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-uri
Get a string representing a URI in IETF standard format (see
http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2396.txt) from which the object's content may be
streamed in the specified mime-type, if one is available. If mime_type is NULL,
the URI for the default (and possibly only) mime-type is returned.

Note that it is possible for get_uri to return NULL but for get_stream to work
nonetheless, since not all GIOChannels connect to URIs.

@table @var
@item streamable
a GObject instance that implements AtkStreamableContentIface

@item mime-type
a gchar* representing the mime type, or NULL to request a URI for the default
mime type.

@item ret
Returns a string representing a URI, or NULL if no corresponding URI can be
constructed.

@end table

Since ATK 1.12

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
