
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <atk-document>
Derives from @code{<ginterface>}.

This class defines no properties, other than those defined by its superclasses.

@end deftp

@defop Signal <atk-document> load-complete 
The 'load-complete' signal is emitted when a pending load of a static document
has completed. This signal is to be expected by ATK clients if and when
AtkDocument implementors expose ATK_STATE_BUSY. If the state of an AtkObject
which implements AtkDocument does not include ATK_STATE_BUSY, it should be safe
for clients to assume that the AtkDocument's static contents are fully loaded
into the container. (Dynamic document contents should be exposed via other
signals.)

@end defop

@defop Signal <atk-document> reload 
The 'reload' signal is emitted when the contents of a document is refreshed from
its source. Once 'reload' has been emitted, a matching 'load-complete' or
'load-stopped' signal should follow, which clients may await before
interrogating ATK for the latest document content.

@end defop

@defop Signal <atk-document> load-stopped 
The 'load-stopped' signal is emitted when a pending load of document contents is
cancelled, paused, or otherwise interrupted by the user or application logic. It
should not however be emitted while waiting for a resource (for instance while
blocking on a file or network read) unless a user-significant timeout has
occurred.

@end defop

@deffn Function atk-document-get-document-type  (self@tie{}@code{<atk-document>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-document-type
Gets a string indicating the document type.

@table @var
@item document
a @code{<gobject>} instance that implements AtkDocumentIface

@item ret
a string indicating the document type

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-document-get-attribute-value  (self@tie{}@code{<atk-document>}) (attribute_name@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-attribute-value
Returns:

@table @var
@item document
a @code{<gobject>} instance that implements AtkDocumentIface

@item attribute-name
a character string representing the name of the attribute whose value is being
queried.

@item ret
a string value associated with the named attribute for this document, or NULL if
a value for @code{<attribute-name>} has not been specified for this document.

@end table

Since ATK 1.12

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-document-set-attribute-value  (self@tie{}@code{<atk-document>}) (attribute_name@tie{}@code{mchars}) (attribute_value@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-attribute-value
Returns:

@table @var
@item document
a @code{<gobject>} instance that implements AtkDocumentIface

@item attribute-name
a character string representing the name of the attribute whose value is being
set.

@item attribute-value
a string value to be associated with @code{<attribute-name>}.

@item ret
TRUE if @code{<value>} is successfully associated with @code{<attribute-name>}
for this document, FALSE otherwise (e.g. if the document does not allow the
attribute to be modified).

@end table

Since ATK 1.12

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-document-get-locale  (self@tie{}@code{<atk-document>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-locale
Gets a UTF-8 string indicating the POSIX-style LC_MESSAGES locale of the content
of this document instance. Individual text substrings or images within this
document may have a different locale, see atk_text_get_attributes and
atk_image_get_image_locale.

@table @var
@item document
a @code{<gobject>} instance that implements AtkDocumentIface

@item ret
a UTF-8 string indicating the POSIX-style LC_MESSAGES locale of the document
content as a whole, or NULL if the document content does not specify a locale.

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
