
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <atk-relation-set>
This @code{<gobject>} class defines no properties, other than those defined by
its superclasses.

@end deftp

@deffn Function atk-relation-set-new  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<atk-relation-set>})
Creates a new empty relation set.

@table @var
@item ret
a new @code{<atk-relation-set>}

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-relation-set-contains  (self@tie{}@code{<atk-relation-set>}) (relationship@tie{}@code{<atk-relation-type>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method contains
Determines whether the relation set contains a relation that matches the
specified type.

@table @var
@item set
an @code{<atk-relation-set>}

@item relationship
an @code{<atk-relation-type>}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if @var{relationship} is the relationship type of a relation in
@var{set}, @samp{@code{#f}} otherwise

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-relation-set-remove  (self@tie{}@code{<atk-relation-set>}) (relation@tie{}@code{<atk-relation>})
@deffnx Method remove
Removes a relation from the relation set. This function unref's the
@code{<atk-relation>} so it will be deleted unless there is another reference to
it.

@table @var
@item set
an @code{<atk-relation-set>}

@item relation
an @code{<atk-relation>}

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-relation-set-add  (self@tie{}@code{<atk-relation-set>}) (relation@tie{}@code{<atk-relation>})
@deffnx Method add
Add a new relation to the current relation set if it is not already present.
This function ref's the AtkRelation so the caller of this function should unref
it to ensure that it will be destroyed when the AtkRelationSet is destroyed.

@table @var
@item set
an @code{<atk-relation-set>}

@item relation
an @code{<atk-relation>}

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-relation-set-get-n-relations  (self@tie{}@code{<atk-relation-set>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-n-relations
Determines the number of relations in a relation set.

@table @var
@item set
an @code{<atk-relation-set>}

@item ret
an integer representing the number of relations in the set.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-relation-set-get-relation  (self@tie{}@code{<atk-relation-set>}) (i@tie{}@code{int}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<atk-relation>})
@deffnx Method get-relation
Determines the relation at the specified position in the relation set.

@table @var
@item set
an @code{<atk-relation-set>}

@item i
a gint representing a position in the set, starting from 0.

@item ret
a @code{<atk-relation>}, which is the relation at position i in the set.

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
