
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gnome-file-entry>
This @code{<gobject>} class defines the following properties:

@table @code
@item history-id
Unique identifier for the file entry. This will be used to save the history
list.

@item browse-dialog-title
Title for the Browse file dialog.

@item directory-entry
Whether the file entry is being used to enter directory names or complete
filenames.

@item modal
Whether the Browse file window should be modal.

@item filename
Filename that should be displayed in the file entry.

@item default-path
Default path for the Browse file window.

@item gnome-entry
GnomeEntry that the file entry uses for entering filenames. You can use this
property to get the GnomeEntry if you need to modify or query any of its
parameters.

@item gtk-entry
GtkEntry that the file entry uses for entering filenames. You can use this
property to get the GtkEntry if you need to modify or query any of its
parameters.

@item use-filechooser
Whether to use the new GtkFileChooser widget or the GtkFileSelection widget to
select files.

@item filechooser-action
The type of operation that the file selector is performing.

@end table

@end deftp

@defop Signal <gnome-file-entry> browse-clicked 
@end defop

@defop Signal <gnome-file-entry> activate 
@end defop

@deffn Function gnome-file-entry-new  (history_id@tie{}@code{mchars}) (browse_dialog_title@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
@samp{gnome_file_entry_new} is deprecated and should not be used in
newly-written code.

Creates a new @code{<gnome-file-entry>} widget.

@table @var
@item history-id
the id given to @code{<gnome-entry-new>} (see @code{<gnome-entry>}).

@item browse-dialog-title
Title for the file dialog window.

@item ret
A pointer to the widget, NULL if it cannot be created.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-file-entry-construct  (self@tie{}@code{<gnome-file-entry>}) (history_id@tie{}@code{mchars}) (browse_dialog_title@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method construct
@samp{gnome_file_entry_construct} is deprecated and should not be used in
newly-written code.

Constructs a @code{<gnome-file-entry>}

@table @var
@item fentry
A @code{<gnome-file-entry>} to construct.

@item history-id
the id given to @code{<gnome-entry-new>} (see @code{<gnome-entry>}).

@item browse-dialog-title
Title for the file dialog window.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-file-entry-gnome-entry  (self@tie{}@code{<gnome-file-entry>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
@deffnx Method gnome-entry
@samp{gnome_file_entry_gnome_entry} is deprecated and should not be used in
newly-written code.

It returns a pointer to the gnome entry widget of the widget
(see@code{<gnome-entry>}).

@table @var
@item fentry
The GnomeFileEntry widget to work with.

@item ret
A pointer to the component @code{<gnome-entry>} widget

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-file-entry-gtk-entry  (self@tie{}@code{<gnome-file-entry>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
@deffnx Method gtk-entry
@samp{gnome_file_entry_gtk_entry} is deprecated and should not be used in
newly-written code.

Similar to @code{<gnome-file-entry-gnome-entry>} but returns the gtk entry
instead of the Gnome entry widget.

@table @var
@item fentry
The GnomeFileEntry widget to work with.

@item ret
Returns the GtkEntry widget

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-file-entry-set-title  (self@tie{}@code{<gnome-file-entry>}) (browse_dialog_title@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method set-title
@samp{gnome_file_entry_set_title} is deprecated and should not be used in
newly-written code.

Set the title of the browse dialog to @var{browse-dialog-title}. The new title
will go into effect the next time the browse button is pressed.

@table @var
@item fentry
The GnomeFileEntry widget to work with.

@item browse-dialog-title
The new title for the file browse dialog window.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-file-entry-set-default-path  (self@tie{}@code{<gnome-file-entry>}) (path@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method set-default-path
@samp{gnome_file_entry_set_default_path} is deprecated and should not be used in
newly-written code.

Set the default path of browse dialog to @var{path}. The default path is only
used if the entry is empty or if the current path of the entry is not an
absolute path, in which case the default path is prepended to it before the
dialog is started.

@table @var
@item fentry
The GnomeFileEntry widget to work with.

@item path
A path string.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-file-entry-get-full-path  (self@tie{}@code{<gnome-file-entry>}) (file_must_exist@tie{}@code{bool}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-full-path
@samp{gnome_file_entry_get_full_path} is deprecated and should not be used in
newly-written code.

Gets the full absolute path of the file from the entry. If @var{file-must-exist}
is false, nothing is tested and the path is returned. If @var{file-must-exist}
is true, then the path is only returned if the path actually exists. In case the
entry is a directory entry (see @code{<gnome-file-entry-set-directory-entry>}),
then if the path exists and is a directory then it's returned; if not, it is
assumed it was a file so we try to strip it, and try again. It allocates memory
for the returned string.

@table @var
@item fentry
The GnomeFileEntry widget to work with.

@item file-must-exist
boolean

@item ret
a newly allocated string with the path or NULL if something went wrong

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-file-entry-set-filename  (self@tie{}@code{<gnome-file-entry>}) (filename@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method set-filename
@samp{gnome_file_entry_set_filename} is deprecated and should not be used in
newly-written code.

Sets the internal entry to this string.

@table @var
@item fentry
The GnomeFileEntry widget to work with.

@item filename


@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-file-entry-set-modal  (self@tie{}@code{<gnome-file-entry>}) (is_modal@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-modal
@samp{gnome_file_entry_set_modal} is deprecated and should not be used in
newly-written code.

Sets the modality of the browse dialog.

@table @var
@item fentry
The GnomeFileEntry widget to work with.

@item is-modal
true if the window is to be modal, false otherwise.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-file-entry-get-modal  (self@tie{}@code{<gnome-file-entry>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-modal
@samp{gnome_file_entry_get_modal} is deprecated and should not be used in
newly-written code.

This function gets the boolean which specifies if the browsing dialog is modal
or not

@table @var
@item fentry
The GnomeFileEntry widget to work with.

@item ret
A boolean.

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
