
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <atk-util>
This @code{<gobject>} class defines no properties, other than those defined by
its superclasses.

@end deftp

@deffn Function atk-add-focus-tracker  (focus_tracker@tie{}@code{<atk-event-listener>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{unsigned-int})
Adds the specified function to the list of functions to be called when an object
receives focus.

@table @var
@item focus-tracker
Function to be added to the list of functions to be called when an object
receives focus.

@item ret
added focus tracker id, or 0 on failure.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-remove-focus-tracker  (tracker_id@tie{}@code{unsigned-int})
Removes the specified focus tracker from the list of functions to be called when
any object receives focus.

@table @var
@item tracker-id
the id of the focus tracker to remove

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-focus-tracker-init  (init@tie{}@code{<atk-event-listener-init>})
Specifies the function to be called for focus tracker initialization. This
function should be called by an implementation of the ATK interface if any
specific work needs to be done to enable focus tracking.

@table @var
@item init
Function to be called for focus tracker initialization

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-focus-tracker-notify  (object@tie{}@code{<atk-object>})
Cause the focus tracker functions which have been specified to be executed for
the object.

@table @var
@item object
an @code{<atk-object>}

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-add-global-event-listener  (listener@tie{}@code{<g-signal-emission-hook>}) (event_type@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{unsigned-int})
Adds the specified function to the list of functions to be called when an event
of type event_type occurs.

@table @var
@item listener
the listener to notify

@item event-type
the type of event for which notification is requested

@item ret
added event listener id, or 0 on failure.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-remove-global-event-listener  (listener_id@tie{}@code{unsigned-int})
Removes the specified event listener

@table @var
@item listener-id
the id of the event listener to remove

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-remove-key-event-listener  (listener_id@tie{}@code{unsigned-int})
Removes the specified event listener

@table @var
@item listener-id
the id of the event listener to remove

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-get-root  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<atk-object>})
Gets the root accessible container for the current application.

@table @var
@item ret
the root accessible container for the current application

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-get-focus-object  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<atk-object>})
Gets the currently focused object.

Returns:

@table @var
@item ret
the currently focused object for the current application

@end table

Since ATK 1.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-get-toolkit-name  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
Gets name string for the GUI toolkit implementing ATK for this application.

@table @var
@item ret
name string for the GUI toolkit implementing ATK for this application

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-get-toolkit-version  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
Gets version string for the GUI toolkit implementing ATK for this application.

@table @var
@item ret
version string for the GUI toolkit implementing ATK for this application

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
