
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <atk-image>
This @code{<gobject>} class defines no properties, other than those defined by
its superclasses.

@end deftp

@deffn Function atk-image-get-image-position  (self@tie{}@code{<atk-image>}) (coord_type@tie{}@code{<atk-coord-type>}) @result{}@tie{} (x@tie{}@code{int}) (y@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-image-position
Gets the position of the image in the form of a point specifying the images
top-left corner.

@table @var
@item image
a @code{<gobject>} instance that implements AtkImageIface

@item x
address of @code{<gint>} to put x coordinate position; otherwise, -1 if value
cannot be obtained.

@item y
address of @code{<gint>} to put y coordinate position; otherwise, -1 if value
cannot be obtained.

@item coord-type
specifies whether the coordinates are relative to the screen or to the
components top level window

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-image-get-image-description  (self@tie{}@code{<atk-image>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-image-description
Get a textual description of this image.

@table @var
@item image
a @code{<gobject>} instance that implements AtkImageIface

@item ret
a string representing the image description

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-image-set-image-description  (self@tie{}@code{<atk-image>}) (description@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-image-description
Sets the textual description for this image.

@table @var
@item image
a @code{<gobject>} instance that implements AtkImageIface

@item description
a string description to set for @var{image}

@item ret
boolean TRUE, or FALSE if operation could not be completed.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-image-get-image-size  (self@tie{}@code{<atk-image>}) @result{}@tie{} (width@tie{}@code{int}) (height@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-image-size
Get the width and height in pixels for the specified image. The values of
@var{width} and @var{height} are returned as -1 if the values cannot be obtained
(for instance, if the object is not onscreen).

@table @var
@item image
a @code{<gobject>} instance that implements AtkImageIface

@item width
filled with the image width, or -1 if the value cannot be obtained.

@item height
filled with the image height, or -1 if the value cannot be obtained.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-image-get-image-locale  (self@tie{}@code{<atk-image>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-image-locale
Since ATK 1.12

@table @var
@item image
An @code{<atk-image>}

@item ret
a string corresponding to the POSIX LC_MESSAGES locale used by the image
description, or NULL if the image does not specify a locale.

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
