
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gnome-href>
This @code{<gobject>} class defines the following properties:

@table @code
@item url
The URL that GnomeHRef activates

@item text
The text on the button

@end table

@end deftp

@deffn Function gnome-href-new  (url@tie{}@code{mchars}) (text@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Created a GNOME href object, a label widget with a clickable action and an
associated URL. If @var{text} is set to @samp{@code{#f}}, @var{url} is used as
the text for the label.

@table @var
@item url
URL assigned to this object.

@item text
Text associated with the URL.

@item ret
Pointer to new GNOME href widget.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-href-set-url  (self@tie{}@code{<gnome-href>}) (url@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method set-url
Sets the internal URL value within @var{href} to the value of @var{url}.

@table @var
@item href
Pointer to GnomeHRef widget

@item url
String containing the URL to be stored within @var{href}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-href-get-url  (self@tie{}@code{<gnome-href>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-url
Returns the pointer to the URL associated with the @var{href} href object. Note
that the string should not be freed as it is internal memory.

@table @var
@item href
Pointer to GnomeHRef widget

@item ret
Pointer to an internal URL string, or @samp{@code{#f}} if failure.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-href-set-text  (self@tie{}@code{<gnome-href>}) (text@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method set-text
Sets the internal label widget text (used to display a URL's link text) to the
value given in @var{label}.

@table @var
@item href
Pointer to GnomeHRef widget

@item text
New link text for the href object.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gnome-href-get-text  (self@tie{}@code{<gnome-href>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-text
Returns the contents of the label widget used to display the link text. Note
that the string should not be freed as it points to internal memory.

@table @var
@item href
Pointer to GnomeHRef widget

@item ret
Pointer to text contained in the label widget.

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
