
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <atk-hyperlink>
This @code{<gobject>} class defines the following properties:

@table @code
@item selected-link
Specifies whether the AtkHyperlink object is selected@item number-of-anchors
The number of anchors associated with the AtkHyperlink object@item end-index
The end index of the AtkHyperlink object@item start-index
The start index of the AtkHyperlink object@end table

@end deftp

@defop Signal <atk-hyperlink> link-activated 
The signal link-activated is emitted when a link is activated.

@end defop

@deffn Function atk-hyperlink-get-uri  (self@tie{}@code{<atk-hyperlink>}) (i@tie{}@code{int}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-uri
Get a the URI associated with the anchor specified by @var{i} of @var{link}.

Multiple anchors are primarily used by client-side image maps.

@table @var
@item link
an @code{<atk-hyperlink>}

@item i
a (zero-index) integer specifying the desired anchor

@item ret
a string specifying the URI

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-hyperlink-get-object  (self@tie{}@code{<atk-hyperlink>}) (i@tie{}@code{int}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<atk-object>})
@deffnx Method get-object
Returns the item associated with this hyperlinks nth anchor. For instance, the
returned @code{<atk-object>} will implement @code{<atk-text>} if @var{link} is a
text hyperlink, @code{<atk-image>} if @var{link} is an image hyperlink etc.

Multiple anchors are primarily used by client-side image maps.

@table @var
@item link
an @code{<atk-hyperlink>}

@item i
a (zero-index) integer specifying the desired anchor

@item ret
an @code{<atk-object>} associated with this hyperlinks i-th anchor

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-hyperlink-get-end-index  (self@tie{}@code{<atk-hyperlink>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-end-index
Gets the index with the hypertext document at which this link ends.

@table @var
@item link
an @code{<atk-hyperlink>}

@item ret
the index with the hypertext document at which this link ends

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-hyperlink-get-start-index  (self@tie{}@code{<atk-hyperlink>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-start-index
Gets the index with the hypertext document at which this link begins.

@table @var
@item link
an @code{<atk-hyperlink>}

@item ret
the index with the hypertext document at which this link begins

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-hyperlink-is-valid  (self@tie{}@code{<atk-hyperlink>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method is-valid
Since the document that a link is associated with may have changed this method
returns @samp{@code{#t}} if the link is still valid (with respect to the
document it references) and @samp{@code{#f}} otherwise.

@table @var
@item link
an @code{<atk-hyperlink>}

@item ret
whether or not this link is still valid

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-hyperlink-is-inline  (self@tie{}@code{<atk-hyperlink>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method is-inline
Indicates whether the link currently displays some or all of its content inline.
Ordinary HTML links will usually return @samp{@code{#f}}, but an inline
&lt;src&gt; HTML element will return @samp{@code{#t}}. a *

@table @var
@item link
an @code{<atk-hyperlink>}

@item ret
whether or not this link displays its content inline.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-hyperlink-get-n-anchors  (self@tie{}@code{<atk-hyperlink>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-n-anchors
Gets the number of anchors associated with this hyperlink.

@table @var
@item link
an @code{<atk-hyperlink>}

@item ret
the number of anchors associated with this hyperlink

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function atk-hyperlink-is-selected-link  (self@tie{}@code{<atk-hyperlink>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method is-selected-link
Determines whether this AtkHyperlink is selected

Returns:

@table @var
@item link
an @code{<atk-hyperlink>}

@item ret
True is the AtkHyperlink is selected, False otherwise

@end table

Since ATK 1.4 @@Deprecated: This method is deprecated since ATK version 1.8.
Please use ATK_STATE_SELECTED to indicate when a hyperlink within a Hypertext
container is selected.

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
