
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <pango-tab-array>
@end deftp

@deffn Function pango-tab-array-new  (initial_size@tie{}@code{int}) (positions_in_pixels@tie{}@code{bool}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<pango-tab-array>})
Creates an array of @var{initial-size} tab stops. Tab stops are specified in
pixel units if @var{positions-in-pixels} is @samp{@code{#t}}, otherwise in Pango
units. All stops are initially at position 0.

@table @var
@item initial-size
Initial number of tab stops to allocate, can be 0

@item positions-in-pixels
whether positions are in pixel units

@item ret
the newly allocated @code{<pango-tab-array>}, which should be freed with
@code{pango-tab-array-free}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-tab-array-get-size  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-tab-array>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
Gets the number of tab stops in @var{tab-array}.

@table @var
@item tab-array
a @code{<pango-tab-array>}

@item ret
the number of tab stops in the array.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-tab-array-resize  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-tab-array>}) (new_size@tie{}@code{int})
Resizes a tab array. You must subsequently initialize any tabs that were added
as a result of growing the array.

@table @var
@item tab-array
a @code{<pango-tab-array>}

@item new-size
new size of the array

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-tab-array-set-tab  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-tab-array>}) (tab_index@tie{}@code{int}) (alignment@tie{}@code{<pango-tab-align>}) (location@tie{}@code{int})
Sets the alignment and location of a tab stop. @var{alignment} must always be
@code{<pango-tab-left>} in the current implementation.

@table @var
@item tab-array
a @code{<pango-tab-array>}

@item tab-index
the index of a tab stop

@item alignment
tab alignment

@item location
tab location in Pango units

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-tab-array-get-tab  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-tab-array>}) (tab_index@tie{}@code{int}) (alignment@tie{}@code{<pango-tab-align*>}) @result{}@tie{} (location@tie{}@code{int})
Gets the alignment and position of a tab stop.

@table @var
@item tab-array
a @code{<pango-tab-array>}

@item tab-index
tab stop index

@item alignment
location to store alignment, or @samp{@code{#f}}

@item location
location to store tab position, or @samp{@code{#f}}

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-tab-array-get-tabs  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-tab-array>}) (alignments@tie{}@code{<pango-tab-align**>}) (locations@tie{}@code{<gint**>})
If non-@samp{@code{#f}}, @var{alignments} and @var{locations} are filled with
allocated arrays of length @code{pango-tab-array-get-size}. You must free the
returned array.

@table @var
@item tab-array
a @code{<pango-tab-array>}

@item alignments
location to store an array of tab stop alignments, or @samp{@code{#f}}

@item locations
location to store an array of tab positions, or @samp{@code{#f}}

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
