\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename guile-gnome-atk.info
@settitle Guile-Atk
@c %**end of header

@set VERSION 2.15.93
@set UPDATED 2 September 2007

@copying 
This manual is for @code{(gnome atk)} (version @value{VERSION}, updated
@value{UPDATED})

Copyright 2001-2007 Bill Haneman, Marc Mulcahy, Padraig O'Briain

@c ATK is LGPL, ergo GPL distribution is possible
@quotation 
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 or any
later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
@end quotation

@end copying

@dircategory The Algorithmic Language Scheme
@direntry 
* Guile-Atk: (guile-gnome-atk.info).  The Accessibility ToolKit.
@end direntry

@titlepage 
@title Guile-GNOME: Atk
@subtitle version @value{VERSION}, updated @value{UPDATED}
@author Bill Haneman
@author Marc Mulcahy
@author Padraig O'Briain
@page 
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying 
@end titlepage

@ifnottex 
@node Top
@top Guile-Atk

@insertcopying 
@menu
* Overview::               About ATK and its Guile bindings.

* AtkAction::              The ATK interface provided by UI components
                           which the user can activate / interact with.
* AtkComponent::           The ATK interface provided by UI components
                           which occupy a physical area on the screen.
* AtkDocument::            The ATK interface which represents the
                           toplevel container for document content. 
* AtkEditableText::        The ATK interface implemented by components
                           containing user-editable text content.
* AtkGObjectAccessible::   This object class is derived from AtkObject
                           and can be used as a basis implementing
                           accessible objects.
* AtkHyperlinkImpl::       An interface from which the AtkHyperlink
                           associated with an AtkObject may be
                           obtained.
* AtkHyperlink::           An ATK object which encapsulates a link or
                           set of links in a hypertext document.
* AtkHypertext::           The ATK interface which provides standard
                           mechanism for manipulating hyperlinks.
* AtkImage::               The ATK Interface implemented by components
                           which expose image or pixmap content
                           on-screen.
* AtkNoOpObject::          An AtkObject which purports to implement
                           all ATK interfaces.
* AtkNoOpObjectFactory::   The AtkObjectFactory which creates an
                           AtkNoOpObject.
* AtkObject::              The base object class for the Accessibility
                           Toolkit API.
* AtkObjectFactory::       The base object class for a factory used to
                           create accessible objects for objects of a
                           specific GType.
* AtkRegistry::            An object used to store the GType of the
                           factories used to create an accessible
                           object for an object of a particular GType.
* AtkRelation::            An object used to describe a relation
                           between a object and one or more other
                           objects.
* AtkRelationSet::         A set of AtkRelations, normally the set of
                           AtkRelations which an AtkObject has.
* AtkSelection::           The ATK interface implemented by container
                           objects whose AtkObject children can be
                           selected.
* AtkStateSet::            An AtkStateSet determines a component's state set.
* AtkState::               An AtkState describes a component's
                           particular state.
* AtkStreamableContent::   The ATK interface which provides access to
                           streamable content.
* AtkTable::               The ATK interface implemented for UI
                           components which contain tabular or
                           row/column information.
* AtkText::                The ATK interface implemented by components
                           with text content.
* AtkUtil::                A set of ATK utility functions for event
                           and toolkit support.
* AtkValue::               The ATK interface implemented by valuators
                           and components which display or select a
                           value from a bounded range of values.

* Concept Index::
* Function Index::
@end menu

@end ifnottex

@iftex 
@shortcontents 
@end iftex

@include overview.texi
@include section-atkaction.xml.texi
@include section-atkcomponent.xml.texi
@include section-atkdocument.xml.texi
@include section-atkeditabletext.xml.texi
@include section-atkgobjectaccessible.xml.texi
@include section-atkhyperlinkimpl.xml.texi
@include section-atkhyperlink.xml.texi
@include section-atkhypertext.xml.texi
@include section-atkimage.xml.texi
@include section-atknoopobjectfactory.xml.texi
@include section-atknoopobject.xml.texi
@include section-atkobjectfactory.xml.texi
@include section-atkobject.xml.texi
@include section-atkregistry.xml.texi
@include section-atkrelationset.xml.texi
@include section-atkrelation.xml.texi
@include section-atkselection.xml.texi
@include section-atkstateset.xml.texi
@include section-atkstate.xml.texi
@include section-atkstreamablecontent.xml.texi
@include section-atktable.xml.texi
@include section-atktext.xml.texi
@include section-atkutil.xml.texi
@include section-atkvalue.xml.texi


@node Concept Index
@unnumbered Concept Index
@printindex cp
@node Function Index
@unnumbered Function Index
@printindex fn
@bye
