\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename guile-gnome-libgnome.info
@settitle Guile-Libgnome
@c %**end of header

@set VERSION 2.15.93
@set UPDATED 2 September 2007

@copying 
This manual is for @code{(gnome libgnome)} (version @value{VERSION}, updated
@value{UPDATED})

Copyright 2001-2007 Kjartan Maraas, Malcolm Tredinnick, and others

@c libgnome is LGPL, ergo GPL distribution is possible
@quotation 
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 or any
later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
@end quotation

@end copying

@dircategory The Algorithmic Language Scheme
@direntry 
* Guile-Libgnome: (guile-gnome-libgnome.info).  A GNOME catchall library.
@end direntry

@titlepage 
@title Guile-GNOME: Libgnome
@subtitle version @value{VERSION}, updated @value{UPDATED}
@author Kjartan Maraas
@author Malcolm Tredinnick
@author many others
@page 
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying 
@end titlepage

@ifnottex 
@node Top
@top Guile-Libgnome

@insertcopying 
@menu
* Overview::             About libgnome and its Guile bindings.

* gnome-exec::           Execution of programs from within GNOME applications.
* gnome-gconf::          Provides access to the gconf module.
* gnome-help::           Display application and GNOME system help.
* gnome-i18n::           Support for localization and internationalization.
* gnome-init::           Functions used during initialisation of libgnome and other platform libraries.
* gnome-program::        Initialize and retrieve information about a GNOME application.
* gnome-score::          Tracking best scores for games
* gnome-sound::          Sound playing routines.
* gnome-triggers::       Hierarchical signal mechanism for GNOME events.
* gnome-url::            Display urls using appropriate viewers.
* gnome-util::           Miscellaneous utility functions.
* libgnometypebuiltins:: Some type macros defined by libgnome.
* libgnome:: 

* Undocumented::        Undocumented functions.

* Type Index::
* Function Index::
@end menu

@end ifnottex

@iftex 
@shortcontents 
@end iftex

@include overview.texi

@include section-gnome-exec.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-gconf.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-help.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-i18n.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-init.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-program.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-score.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-sound.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-triggers.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-url.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-util.xml.texi
@include section-libgnometypebuiltins.xml.texi
@include section-libgnome.xml.texi

@include undocumented.texi

@node Type Index
@unnumbered Type Index
@printindex tp
@node Function Index
@unnumbered Function Index
@printindex fn
@bye
