\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename guile-gnome-libgnomeui.info
@settitle Guile-Libgnomeui
@c %**end of header

@set VERSION 2.15.93
@set UPDATED 1 November 2007

@copying 
This manual is for @code{(gnome libgnomeui)} (version @value{VERSION}, updated
@value{UPDATED})

Copyright 1998-2007 Kjartan Maraas, Anders Carlsson, and others

@c LIBGNOMEUI is LGPL, ergo GPL distribution is possible
@quotation 
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 or any
later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
@end quotation

@end copying

@dircategory The Algorithmic Language Scheme
@direntry 
* Guile-Libgnomeui: (guile-gnome-libgnomeui.info).  A deprecated GNOME UI lib.
@end direntry

@titlepage 
@title Guile-GNOME: libgnomeui
@subtitle version @value{VERSION}, updated @value{UPDATED}
@author Kjartan Maraas
@author Anders Carlsson
@author many others
@page 
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying 
@end titlepage

@ifnottex 
@node Top
@top Guile-Libgnomeui

@insertcopying 
@menu
* Overview::             About libgnomeui and its Guile bindings.

* GnomeAbout::           Display author, documenter and translator credits for an application.
* GnomeAppBar::          An application status and progress bar widget
* gnome-app-helper::     Useful functions for populating menus and toolbars.
* GnomeApp::             The main application widget.
* GnomeAuthentication:: 
* GnomeClient::          Interactions with the session manager.
* GnomeDateEdit:: 
* GnomeDruidPageEdge::   A widget used to implement first and last pages in a druid's sequence.
* GnomeDruidPageStandard:: A widget used to implement the middle pages in a druid's sequence.
* GnomeDruidPage::       A widget representing a single page inside a druid.
* GnomeDruid::           Widget for sequentially stepping through some pages.
* GnomeFileEntry:: 
* GnomeHRef:: 
* gnome-ice::            Interface between ICE and gtk.
* GnomeIconEntry:: 
* GnomeIconTextItem:: 
* GnomeIconList:: 
* GnomeIconLookup:: 
* GnomeIconSelection:: 
* GnomeMultiScreen:: 
* GnomePassword:: 
* GnomeScores:: 
* gnome-stock-icons::    Stock icons used across GNOME applications.
* GnomeThumbnail:: 
* gnometypebuiltins:: 
* gnome-types:: 
* gnome-uidefs::         Standard defines used throughout libgnomeui.
* gnome-ui-init::        Parameters (and deprecated functions) for initializing libgnomeui applications.
* gnome-vfs-util:: 
* gnome-window-icon:: 
* gnome-window::         Convenience functions for setting window attributes.

* Type Index::
* Function Index::
@end menu

@end ifnottex

@iftex 
@shortcontents 
@end iftex

@include overview.texi

@include section-gnome-about.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-appbar.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-app-helper.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-app.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-authentication.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-client.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-dateedit.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-druid-page-edge.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-druid-page-standard.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-druid-page.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-druid.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-file-entry.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-href.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-ice.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-icon-entry.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-icon-item.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-icon-list.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-icon-lookup.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-icon-sel.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-multi-screen.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-password.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-scores.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-stock-icons.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-thumbnail.xml.texi
@include section-gnometypebuiltins.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-types.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-uidefs.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-ui-init.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-vfs-util.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-window-icon.xml.texi
@include section-gnome-window.xml.texi

@node Type Index
@unnumbered Type Index
@printindex tp
@node Function Index
@unnumbered Function Index
@printindex fn
@bye
