\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@comment $Id: tutorial.texi,v 1.1 2004/02/11 13:37:13 wingo Exp $
@comment %**start of header
@settitle guile-gnome Tutorial
@include version.texi
@set UPDATED {07 February 2004}
@syncodeindex pg cp
@comment %**end of header
@copying
Copyright @copyright{} 2003,2004 Andy Wingo

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;

with the Invariant Sections being:

         "The GNU General Public License"
         "The GNU Free Documentation License"

with the Front-Cover Texts being

         "A GNU Manual",

and with the Back-Cover Texts being

         (none).

You can find more information about this license, and the license of
guile-gnome itself, at the end of the manual.
@end quotation
@end copying

@titlepage
@title guile-gnome Tutorial
@subtitle for version @value{VERSION}, last updated @value{UPDATED}
@author Andy Wingo (@email{wingo at pobox.com})
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@end titlepage

This tutorial is for guile-gnome (version @value{VERSION}, last
updated @value{UPDATED}), a binding between the Guile extension
language and the Gnome programming environment.

@insertcopying

@contents

@include gobject.texi

@include gtk.texi

@include corba.texi

@include bindings-generator.texi

@c @include references.texi

@ignore
<h3><a name="other-info">Other sources of information</a></h3>
<dl>
 <dt><a href="http://savannah.gnu.org/project/guile-gtk/">0.2.0 release notes</a></dt>
 <dd>
  Although they were released almost two years ago, Martin Baulig's
  notes on the first guile-gobject release are still relevant today.
 </dd>
 <dt><a href="http://savannah.gnu.org/project/guile-gtk/">0.5.0 release notes</a></dt>
 <dd>
  An acceptable introduction to the binding generator, with some examples.
  Also introduces the use of generic functions, as well as the Gtk bindings.
 </dd>
</dl>
@end ignore

@node Sharing and Hacking
@appendix Sharing and Hacking

guile-gnome is free software. You are free to give this software to
anyone you like, with or without modifications, under the conditions
outlined in the sections below.

@node The GNU General Public License
@appendixsec The GNU General Public License

@include gpl.texi

@node The GNU Free Documentation License
@appendixsec The GNU Free Documentation License

@include fdl.texi

@bye
