
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-check-menu-item>
This @code{<gobject>} class defines the following properties:

@table @code
@item active
Whether the menu item is checked@item inconsistent
Whether to display an "inconsistent" state@item draw-as-radio
Whether the menu item looks like a radio menu item@end table

@end deftp

@defop Signal <gtk-check-menu-item> toggled 
This signal is emitted when the state of the check box is changed.

A signal handler can examine the field of the @code{<gtk-check-menu-item>}
struct to discover the new state.

@end defop

@deffn Function gtk-check-menu-item-new  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-check-menu-item>}.

@table @var
@item ret
a new @code{<gtk-check-menu-item>}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-check-menu-item-new-with-label  (label@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-check-menu-item>} with a label.

@table @var
@item label
the string to use for the label.

@item ret
a new @code{<gtk-check-menu-item>}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-check-menu-item-get-active  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-check-menu-item>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-active
Returns whether the check menu item is active. See
@code{gtk-check-menu-item-set-active}.

@table @var
@item check-menu-item
a @code{<gtk-check-menu-item>}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if the menu item is checked.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-check-menu-item-set-active  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-check-menu-item>}) (is_active@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-active
Sets the active state of the menu item's check box.

@table @var
@item check-menu-item
a @code{<gtk-check-menu-item>}.

@item is-active
boolean value indicating whether the check box is active.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-check-menu-item-toggled  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-check-menu-item>})
@deffnx Method toggled
Emits the GtkCheckMenuItem::toggled signal.

@table @var
@item check-menu-item
a @code{<gtk-check-menu-item>}.

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
