
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-tool-button>
This @code{<gobject>} class defines the following properties:

@table @code
@item label
Text to show in the item.@item use-underline
If set, an underline in the label property indicates that the next character should be used for the mnemonic accelerator key in the overflow menu@item label-widget
Widget to use as the item label@item stock-id
The stock icon displayed on the item@item icon-name
The name of the themed icon displayed on the item@item icon-widget
Icon widget to display in the item@end table

@end deftp

@defop Signal <gtk-tool-button> clicked 
This signal is emitted when the tool button is clicked with the mouse or
activated with the keyboard.

@end defop

@deffn Function gtk-tool-button-new  (icon_widget@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) (label@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-tool-item>})
Creates a new @samp{GtkToolButton} using @var{icon-widget} as icon and
@var{label} as label.

@table @var
@item icon-widget
a widget that will be used as icon widget, or @samp{@code{#f}}

@item label
a string that will be used as label, or @samp{@code{#f}}

@item ret
A new @code{<gtk-tool-button>}

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-tool-button-new-from-stock  (stock_id@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-tool-item>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-tool-button>} containing the image and text from a
stock item. Some stock ids have preprocessor macros like @code{<gtk-stock-ok>}
and @code{<gtk-stock-apply>}.

It is an error if @var{stock-id} is not a name of a stock item.

@table @var
@item stock-id
the name of the stock item

@item ret
A new @code{<gtk-tool-button>}

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-tool-button-set-label  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-tool-button>}) (label@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method set-label
Sets @var{label} as the label used for the tool button. The "label" property
only has an effect if not overridden by a non-@samp{@code{#f}} "label_widget"
property. If both the "label_widget" and "label" properties are
@samp{@code{#f}}, the label is determined by the "stock_id" property. If the
"stock_id" property is also @samp{@code{#f}}, @var{button} will not have a
label.

@table @var
@item button
a @code{<gtk-tool-button>}

@item label
a string that will be used as label, or @samp{@code{#f}}.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-tool-button-get-label  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-tool-button>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-label
Returns the label used by the tool button, or @samp{@code{#f}} if the tool
button doesn't have a label. or uses a the label from a stock item. The returned
string is owned by GTK+, and must not be modified or freed.

@table @var
@item button
a @code{<gtk-tool-button>}

@item ret
The label, or @samp{@code{#f}}

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-tool-button-set-use-underline  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-tool-button>}) (use_underline@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-use-underline
If set, an underline in the label property indicates that the next character
should be used for the mnemonic accelerator key in the overflow menu. For
example, if the label property is "_Open" and @var{use-underline} is
@samp{@code{#t}}, the label on the tool button will be "Open" and the item on
the overflow menu will have an underlined 'O'.

Labels shown on tool buttons never have mnemonics on them; this property only
affects the menu item on the overflow menu.

@table @var
@item button
a @code{<gtk-tool-button>}

@item use-underline
whether the button label has the form "_Open"

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-tool-button-get-use-underline  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-tool-button>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-use-underline
Returns whether underscores in the label property are used as mnemonics on menu
items on the overflow menu. See @code{gtk-tool-button-set-use-underline}.

@table @var
@item button
a @code{<gtk-tool-button>}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if underscores in the label property are used as mnemonics on
menu items on the overflow menu.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-tool-button-set-stock-id  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-tool-button>}) (stock_id@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method set-stock-id
Sets the name of the stock item. See @code{gtk-tool-button-new-from-stock}. The
stock_id property only has an effect if not overridden by non-@samp{@code{#f}}
"label" and "icon_widget" properties.

@table @var
@item button
a @code{<gtk-tool-button>}

@item stock-id
a name of a stock item, or @samp{@code{#f}}

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-tool-button-get-stock-id  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-tool-button>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-stock-id
Returns the name of the stock item. See @code{gtk-tool-button-set-stock-id}. The
returned string is owned by GTK+ and must not be freed or modifed.

@table @var
@item button
a @code{<gtk-tool-button>}

@item ret
the name of the stock item for @var{button}.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-tool-button-set-icon-name  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-tool-button>}) (icon_name@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method set-icon-name
Sets the icon for the tool button from a named themed icon. See the docs for
@code{<gtk-icon-theme>} for more details. The "icon_name" property only has an
effect if not overridden by non-@samp{@code{#f}} "label", "icon_widget" and
"stock_id" properties.

@table @var
@item button
a @code{<gtk-tool-button>}

@item icon-name
the name of the themed icon

@end table

Since 2.8

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-tool-button-get-icon-name  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-tool-button>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-icon-name
Returns the name of the themed icon for the tool button, see
@code{gtk-tool-button-set-icon-name}.

@table @var
@item button
a @code{<gtk-tool-button>}

@item ret
the icon name or @samp{@code{#f}} if the tool button has no themed icon

@end table

Since 2.8

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-tool-button-set-icon-widget  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-tool-button>}) (icon_widget@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
@deffnx Method set-icon-widget
Sets @var{icon} as the widget used as icon on @var{button}. If @var{icon-widget}
is @samp{@code{#f}} the icon is determined by the "stock_id" property. If the
"stock_id" property is also @samp{@code{#f}}, @var{button} will not have an
icon.

@table @var
@item button
a @code{<gtk-tool-button>}

@item icon-widget
the widget used as icon, or @samp{@code{#f}}

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-tool-button-get-icon-widget  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-tool-button>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
@deffnx Method get-icon-widget
Return the widget used as icon widget on @var{button}. See
@code{gtk-tool-button-set-icon-widget}.

@table @var
@item button
a @code{<gtk-tool-button>}

@item ret
The widget used as icon on @var{button}, or @samp{@code{#f}}.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-tool-button-set-label-widget  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-tool-button>}) (label_widget@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
@deffnx Method set-label-widget
Sets @var{label-widget} as the widget that will be used as the label for
@var{button}. If @var{label-widget} is @samp{@code{#f}} the "label" property is
used as label. If "label" is also @samp{@code{#f}}, the label in the stock item
determined by the "stock_id" property is used as label. If "stock_id" is also
@samp{@code{#f}}, @var{button} does not have a label.

@table @var
@item button
a @code{<gtk-tool-button>}

@item label-widget
the widget used as label, or @samp{@code{#f}}

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-tool-button-get-label-widget  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-tool-button>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
@deffnx Method get-label-widget
Returns the widget used as label on @var{button}. See
@code{gtk-tool-button-set-label-widget}.

@table @var
@item button
a @code{<gtk-tool-button>}

@item ret
The widget used as label on @var{button}, or @samp{@code{#f}}.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
