
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-cell-view>
Derives from @code{<gtk-cell-layout>}, @code{<gtk-widget>}.

This class defines the following properties:

@table @code
@item background
Background color as a string

@item background-gdk
Background color as a GdkColor

@item background-set
Whether this tag affects the background color

@item model
The model for cell view

@end table

@end deftp

@deffn Function gtk-cell-view-new  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-cell-view>} widget.

@table @var
@item ret
A newly created @code{<gtk-cell-view>} widget.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-cell-view-new-with-text  (text@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-cell-view>} widget, adds a
@code{<gtk-cell-renderer-text>} to it, and makes its show @var{text}.

@table @var
@item text
the text to display in the cell view

@item ret
A newly created @code{<gtk-cell-view>} widget.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-cell-view-new-with-markup  (markup@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-cell-view>} widget, adds a
@code{<gtk-cell-renderer-text>} to it, and makes its show @var{markup}. The text
can text can be marked up with the Pango text markup language.

@table @var
@item markup
the text to display in the cell view

@item ret
A newly created @code{<gtk-cell-view>} widget.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-cell-view-new-with-pixbuf  (pixbuf@tie{}@code{<gdk-pixbuf>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-cell-view>} widget, adds a
@code{<gtk-cell-renderer-pixbuf>} to it, and makes its show @var{pixbuf}.

@table @var
@item pixbuf
the image to display in the cell view

@item ret
A newly created @code{<gtk-cell-view>} widget.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-cell-view-set-model  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-cell-view>}) (model@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-model>})
@deffnx Method set-model
Sets the model for @var{cell-view}. If @var{cell-view} already has a model set,
it will remove it before setting the new model. If @var{model} is
@samp{@code{#f}}, then it will unset the old model.

@table @var
@item cell-view
a @code{<gtk-cell-view>}

@item model
a @code{<gtk-tree-model>}

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-cell-view-set-displayed-row  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-cell-view>}) (path@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-path>})
@deffnx Method set-displayed-row
Sets the row of the model that is currently displayed by the
@code{<gtk-cell-view>}. If the path is unset, then the contents of the cellview
"stick" at their last value; this is not normally a desired result, but may be a
needed intermediate state if say, the model for the @code{<gtk-cell-view>}
becomes temporarily empty.

@table @var
@item cell-view
a @code{<gtk-cell-view>}

@item path
a @code{<gtk-tree-path>} or @samp{@code{#f}} to unset.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-cell-view-get-displayed-row  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-cell-view>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-path>})
@deffnx Method get-displayed-row
Returns a @code{<gtk-tree-path>} referring to the currently displayed row. If no
row is currently displayed, @samp{@code{#f}} is returned.

@table @var
@item cell-view
a @code{<gtk-cell-view>}

@item ret
the currently displayed row or @samp{@code{#f}}

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-cell-view-get-size-of-row  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-cell-view>}) (path@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-path>}) (requisition@tie{}@code{<gtk-requisition>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-size-of-row
Sets @var{requisition} to the size needed by @var{cell-view} to display the
model row pointed to by @var{path}.

@table @var
@item cell-view
a @code{<gtk-cell-view>}

@item path
a @code{<gtk-tree-path>}

@item requisition
return location for the size

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}}

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-cell-view-set-background-color  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-cell-view>}) (color@tie{}@code{<gdk-color>})
@deffnx Method set-background-color
Sets the background color of @var{view}.

@table @var
@item cell-view
a @code{<gtk-cell-view>}

@item color
the new background color

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-cell-view-get-cell-renderers  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-cell-view>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{glist-of})
@deffnx Method get-cell-renderers
Returns the cell renderers which have been added to @var{cell-view}.

@table @var
@item cell-view
a @code{<gtk-cell-view>}

@item ret
a list of cell renderers. The list, but not the renderers has been newly
allocated and should be freed with @code{g-list-free} when no longer needed.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
