
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-tree-selection>
Derives from @code{<gobject>}.

This class defines no properties, other than those defined by its superclasses.

@end deftp

@defop Signal <gtk-tree-selection> changed 
Emitted whenever the selection has (possibly) changed. Please note that this
signal is mostly a hint. It may only be emitted once when a range of rows are
selected, and it may occasionally be emitted when nothing has happened.

@end defop

@deffn Function gtk-tree-selection-set-mode  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-selection>}) (type@tie{}@code{<gtk-selection-mode>})
@deffnx Method set-mode
Sets the selection mode of the @var{selection}. If the previous type was
@code{<gtk-selection-multiple>}, then the anchor is kept selected, if it was
previously selected.

@table @var
@item selection
A @code{<gtk-tree-selection>}.

@item type
The selection mode

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-tree-selection-get-mode  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-selection>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-selection-mode>})
@deffnx Method get-mode
Gets the selection mode for @var{selection}. See
@code{gtk-tree-selection-set-mode}.

@table @var
@item selection
a @code{<gtk-tree-selection>}

@item ret
the current selection mode

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-tree-selection-get-tree-view  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-selection>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-view>})
@deffnx Method get-tree-view
Returns the tree view associated with @var{selection}.

@table @var
@item selection
A @code{<gtk-tree-selection>}

@item ret
A @code{<gtk-tree-view>}

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-tree-selection-get-selected  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-selection>}) @result{}@tie{} (model@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-model>}) (iter@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-iter>})
@deffnx Method get-selected
@deffnx Method get-selected 
Retrieve the current selection, if @var{selection} is set to
@code{<gtk-selection-single>} or @code{<gtk-selection-browse>}.

This function will not work if you use @var{selection} is
@code{<gtk-selection-multiple>}.

@table @var
@item selection
A @code{<gtk-tree-selection>}.

@item model
A pointer to set to the @code{<gtk-tree-model>}, or NULL.

@item iter
The @code{<gtk-tree-iter>}, or NULL.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-tree-selection-select-path  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-selection>}) (path@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-path>})
@deffnx Method select-path
Select the row at @var{path}.

@table @var
@item selection
A @code{<gtk-tree-selection>}.

@item path
The @code{<gtk-tree-path>} to be selected.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-tree-selection-unselect-path  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-selection>}) (path@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-path>})
@deffnx Method unselect-path
Unselects the row at @var{path}.

@table @var
@item selection
A @code{<gtk-tree-selection>}.

@item path
The @code{<gtk-tree-path>} to be unselected.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-tree-selection-path-is-selected  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-selection>}) (path@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-path>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method path-is-selected
Returns @samp{@code{#t}} if the row pointed to by @var{path} is currently
selected. If @var{path} does not point to a valid location, @samp{@code{#f}} is
returned

@table @var
@item selection
A @code{<gtk-tree-selection>}.

@item path
A @code{<gtk-tree-path>} to check selection on.

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if @var{path} is selected.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-tree-selection-select-iter  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-selection>}) (iter@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-iter>})
@deffnx Method select-iter
Selects the specified iterator.

@table @var
@item selection
A @code{<gtk-tree-selection>}.

@item iter
The @code{<gtk-tree-iter>} to be selected.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-tree-selection-unselect-iter  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-selection>}) (iter@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-iter>})
@deffnx Method unselect-iter
Unselects the specified iterator.

@table @var
@item selection
A @code{<gtk-tree-selection>}.

@item iter
The @code{<gtk-tree-iter>} to be unselected.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-tree-selection-iter-is-selected  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-selection>}) (iter@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-iter>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method iter-is-selected
Returns @samp{@code{#t}} if the row at @var{iter} is currently selected.

@table @var
@item selection
A @code{<gtk-tree-selection>}

@item iter
A valid @code{<gtk-tree-iter>}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}}, if @var{iter} is selected

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-tree-selection-select-all  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-selection>})
@deffnx Method select-all
Selects all the nodes. @var{selection} must be set to
@code{<gtk-selection-multiple>} mode.

@table @var
@item selection
A @code{<gtk-tree-selection>}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-tree-selection-unselect-all  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-selection>})
@deffnx Method unselect-all
Unselects all the nodes.

@table @var
@item selection
A @code{<gtk-tree-selection>}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-tree-selection-select-range  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-selection>}) (start_path@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-path>}) (end_path@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-path>})
@deffnx Method select-range
Selects a range of nodes, determined by @var{start-path} and @var{end-path}
inclusive. @var{selection} must be set to @code{<gtk-selection-multiple>} mode.

@table @var
@item selection
A @code{<gtk-tree-selection>}.

@item start-path
The initial node of the range.

@item end-path
The final node of the range.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-tree-selection-unselect-range  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-selection>}) (start_path@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-path>}) (end_path@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-path>})
@deffnx Method unselect-range
Unselects a range of nodes, determined by @var{start-path} and @var{end-path}
inclusive.

@table @var
@item selection
A @code{<gtk-tree-selection>}.

@item start-path
The initial node of the range.

@item end-path
The initial node of the range.

@end table

Since 2.2

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
