
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-frame>
This @code{<gobject>} class defines the following properties:

@table @code
@item label
Text of the frame's label@item label-xalign
The horizontal alignment of the label@item label-yalign
The vertical alignment of the label@item shadow
Deprecated property, use shadow_type instead@item shadow-type
Appearance of the frame border@item label-widget
A widget to display in place of the usual frame label@end table

@end deftp

@deffn Function gtk-frame-new  (label@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-frame>}, with optional label @var{label}. If
@var{label} is @samp{@code{#f}}, the label is omitted.

@table @var
@item label
the text to use as the label of the frame

@item ret
a new @code{<gtk-frame>} widget

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-frame-set-label  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-frame>}) (label@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method set-label
Sets the text of the label. If @var{label} is @samp{@code{#f}}, the current
label is removed.

@table @var
@item frame
a @code{<gtk-frame>}

@item label
the text to use as the label of the frame

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-frame-set-label-widget  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-frame>}) (label_widget@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
@deffnx Method set-label-widget
Sets the label widget for the frame. This is the widget that will appear
embedded in the top edge of the frame as a title.

@table @var
@item frame
a @code{<gtk-frame>}

@item label-widget
the new label widget

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-frame-set-label-align  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-frame>}) (xalign@tie{}@code{float}) (yalign@tie{}@code{float})
@deffnx Method set-label-align
Sets the alignment of the frame widget's label. The default values for a newly
created frame are 0.0 and 0.5.

@table @var
@item frame
a @code{<gtk-frame>}

@item xalign
The position of the label along the top edge of the widget. A value of 0.0
represents left alignment; 1.0 represents right alignment.

@item yalign
The y alignment of the label. A value of 0.0 aligns under the frame; 1.0 aligns
above the frame.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-frame-set-shadow-type  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-frame>}) (type@tie{}@code{<gtk-shadow-type>})
@deffnx Method set-shadow-type
Sets the shadow type for @var{frame}.

@table @var
@item frame
a @code{<gtk-frame>}

@item type
the new @code{<gtk-shadow-type>}

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-frame-get-label  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-frame>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-label
If the frame's label widget is a @code{<gtk-label>}, returns the text in the
label widget. (The frame will have a @code{<gtk-label>} for the label widget if
a non-@samp{@code{#f}} argument was passed to @code{gtk-frame-new}.)

@table @var
@item frame
a @code{<gtk-frame>}

@item ret
the text in the label, or @samp{@code{#f}} if there was no label widget or the
lable widget was not a @code{<gtk-label>}. This string is owned by GTK+ and must
not be modified or freed.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-frame-get-label-align  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-frame>}) @result{}@tie{} (xalign@tie{}@code{float}) (yalign@tie{}@code{float})
@deffnx Method get-label-align
Retrieves the X and Y alignment of the frame's label. See
@code{gtk-frame-set-label-align}.

@table @var
@item frame
a @code{<gtk-frame>}

@item xalign
location to store X alignment of frame's label, or @samp{@code{#f}}

@item yalign
location to store X alignment of frame's label, or @samp{@code{#f}}

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-frame-get-label-widget  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-frame>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
@deffnx Method get-label-widget
Retrieves the label widget for the frame. See @code{gtk-frame-set-label-widget}.

@table @var
@item frame
a @code{<gtk-frame>}

@item ret
the label widget, or @samp{@code{#f}} if there is none.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-frame-get-shadow-type  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-frame>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-shadow-type>})
@deffnx Method get-shadow-type
Retrieves the shadow type of the frame. See @code{gtk-frame-set-shadow-type}.

@table @var
@item frame
a @code{<gtk-frame>}

@item ret
the current shadow type of the frame.

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
