
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-expander>
This @code{<gobject>} class defines the following properties:

@table @code
@item expanded
Whether the expander has been opened to reveal the child widget@item label
Text of the expander's label@item use-underline
If set, an underline in the text indicates the next character should be used for the mnemonic accelerator key@item use-markup
The text of the label includes XML markup. See pango_parse_markup()@item spacing
Space to put between the label and the child@item label-widget
A widget to display in place of the usual expander label@end table

@end deftp

@defop Signal <gtk-expander> activate 
@end defop

@deffn Function gtk-expander-new  (label@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new expander using @var{label} as the text of the label.

@table @var
@item label
the text of the label

@item ret
a new @code{<gtk-expander>} widget.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-expander-new-with-mnemonic  (label@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new expander using @var{label} as the text of the label. If characters
in @var{label} are preceded by an underscore, they are underlined. If you need a
literal underscore character in a label, use '__' (two underscores). The first
underlined character represents a keyboard accelerator called a mnemonic.
Pressing Alt and that key activates the button.

@table @var
@item label
the text of the label with an underscore in front of the mnemonic character

@item ret
a new @code{<gtk-expander>} widget.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-expander-set-expanded  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-expander>}) (expanded@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-expanded
Sets the state of the expander. Set to @samp{@code{#t}}, if you want the child
widget to be revealed, and @samp{@code{#f}} if you want the child widget to be
hidden.

@table @var
@item expander
a @code{<gtk-expander>}

@item expanded
whether the child widget is revealed

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-expander-get-expanded  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-expander>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-expanded
Queries a @code{<gtk-expander>} and returns its current state. Returns
@samp{@code{#t}} if the child widget is revealed.

See @code{gtk-expander-set-expanded}.

@table @var
@item expander
a @code{<gtk-expander>}

@item ret
the current state of the expander.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-expander-set-spacing  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-expander>}) (spacing@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method set-spacing
Sets the spacing field of @var{expander}, which is the number of pixels to place
between expander and the child.

@table @var
@item expander
a @code{<gtk-expander>}

@item spacing
distance between the expander and child in pixels.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-expander-get-spacing  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-expander>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-spacing
Gets the value set by @code{gtk-expander-set-spacing}.

@table @var
@item expander
a @code{<gtk-expander>}

@item ret
spacing between the expander and child.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-expander-set-label  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-expander>}) (label@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method set-label
Sets the text of the label of the expander to @var{label}.

This will also clear any previously set labels.

@table @var
@item expander
a @code{<gtk-expander>}

@item label
a string

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-expander-get-label  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-expander>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-label
Fetches the text from the label of the expander, as set by
@code{gtk-expander-set-label}. If the label text has not been set the return
value will be @samp{@code{#f}}. This will be the case if you create an empty
button with @code{gtk-button-new} to use as a container.

@table @var
@item expander
a @code{<gtk-expander>}

@item ret
The text of the label widget. This string is owned by the widget and must not be
modified or freed.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-expander-set-use-underline  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-expander>}) (use_underline@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-use-underline
If true, an underline in the text of the expander label indicates the next
character should be used for the mnemonic accelerator key.

@table @var
@item expander
a @code{<gtk-expander>}

@item use-underline
@samp{@code{#t}} if underlines in the text indicate mnemonics

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-expander-get-use-underline  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-expander>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-use-underline
Returns whether an embedded underline in the expander label indicates a
mnemonic. See @code{gtk-expander-set-use-underline}.

@table @var
@item expander
a @code{<gtk-expander>}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if an embedded underline in the expander label indicates the
mnemonic accelerator keys.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-expander-set-use-markup  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-expander>}) (use_markup@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-use-markup
Sets whether the text of the label contains markup in Pango's text markup
language. See @code{gtk-label-set-markup}.

@table @var
@item expander
a @code{<gtk-expander>}

@item use-markup
@samp{@code{#t}} if the label's text should be parsed for markup

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-expander-get-use-markup  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-expander>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-use-markup
Returns whether the label's text is interpreted as marked up with the Pango text
markup language. See @code{gtk-expander-set-use-markup}.

@table @var
@item expander
a @code{<gtk-expander>}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if the label's text will be parsed for markup

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-expander-set-label-widget  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-expander>}) (label_widget@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
@deffnx Method set-label-widget
Set the label widget for the expander. This is the widget that will appear
embedded alongside the expander arrow.

@table @var
@item expander
a @code{<gtk-expander>}

@item label-widget
the new label widget

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-expander-get-label-widget  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-expander>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
@deffnx Method get-label-widget
Retrieves the label widget for the frame. See
@code{gtk-expander-set-label-widget}.

@table @var
@item expander
a @code{<gtk-expander>}

@item ret
the label widget, or @samp{@code{#f}} if there is none.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
