
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-tooltips>
Derives from @code{<gtk-object>}.

This class defines no properties, other than those defined by its superclasses.

@end deftp

@deffn Function gtk-tooltips-new  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-tooltips>})
Creates an empty group of tooltips. This function initialises a
@code{<gtk-tooltips>} structure. Without at least one such structure, you can
not add tips to your application.

@table @var
@item ret
a new @code{<gtk-tooltips>} group for you to use.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-tooltips-enable  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-tooltips>})
@deffnx Method enable
Allows the user to see your tooltips as they navigate your application.

@table @var
@item tooltips
a @code{<gtk-tooltips>}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-tooltips-disable  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-tooltips>})
@deffnx Method disable
Causes all tooltips in @var{tooltips} to become inactive. Any widgets that have
tips associated with that group will no longer display their tips until they are
enabled again with @code{gtk-tooltips-enable}.

@table @var
@item tooltips
a @code{<gtk-tooltips>}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-tooltips-set-tip  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-tooltips>}) (widget@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) (tip_text@tie{}@code{mchars}) (tip_private@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method set-tip
Adds a tooltip containing the message @var{tip-text} to the specified
@code{<gtk-widget>}.

@table @var
@item tooltips
a @code{<gtk-tooltips>}.

@item widget
the @code{<gtk-widget>} you wish to associate the tip with.

@item tip-text
a string containing the tip itself.

@item tip-private
a string of any further information that may be useful if the user gets stuck.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-tooltips-force-window  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-tooltips>})
@deffnx Method force-window
Ensures that the window used for displaying the given @var{tooltips} is created.

Applications should never have to call this function, since GTK+ takes care of
this.

@table @var
@item tooltips
a @code{<gtk-tool-tips>}

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
