
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-calendar>
Derives from @code{<gtk-widget>}.

This class defines the following properties:

@table @code
@item year
The selected year

@item month
The selected month (as a number between 0 and 11)

@item day
The selected day (as a number between 1 and 31, or 0 to unselect the currently
selected day)

@item show-heading
If TRUE, a heading is displayed

@item show-day-names
If TRUE, day names are displayed

@item no-month-change
If TRUE, the selected month cannot be changed

@item show-week-numbers
If TRUE, week numbers are displayed

@end table

@end deftp

@defop Signal <gtk-calendar> month-changed 
Emitted when the user clicks a button to change the selected month on a
calendar.

@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-calendar> day-selected 
Emitted when the user selects a day.

@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-calendar> day-selected-double-click 
@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-calendar> prev-month 
@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-calendar> next-month 
@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-calendar> prev-year 
@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-calendar> next-year 
@end defop

@deffn Function gtk-calendar-new  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new calendar, with the current date being selected.

@table @var
@item ret
a newly @code{<gtk-calendar>} widget

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-calendar-select-month  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-calendar>}) (month@tie{}@code{unsigned-int}) (year@tie{}@code{unsigned-int}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method select-month
Shifts the calendar to a different month.

@table @var
@item calendar
a @code{<gtk-calendar>}

@item month
a month number between 0 and 11.

@item year
the year the month is in.

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}}, always

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-calendar-select-day  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-calendar>}) (day@tie{}@code{unsigned-int})
@deffnx Method select-day
Selects a day from the current month.

@table @var
@item calendar
a @code{<gtk-calendar>}.

@item day
the day number between 1 and 31, or 0 to unselect the currently selected day.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-calendar-mark-day  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-calendar>}) (day@tie{}@code{unsigned-int}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method mark-day
Places a visual marker on a particular day.

@table @var
@item calendar
a @code{<gtk-calendar>}

@item day
the day number to mark between 1 and 31.

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}}, always

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-calendar-unmark-day  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-calendar>}) (day@tie{}@code{unsigned-int}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method unmark-day
Removes the visual marker from a particular day.

@table @var
@item calendar
a @code{<gtk-calendar>}.

@item day
the day number to unmark between 1 and 31.

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}}, always

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-calendar-clear-marks  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-calendar>})
@deffnx Method clear-marks
Remove all visual markers.

@table @var
@item calendar
a @code{<gtk-calendar>}

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-calendar-set-display-options  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-calendar>}) (flags@tie{}@code{<gtk-calendar-display-options>})
@deffnx Method set-display-options
Sets display options (whether to display the heading and the month headings).

@table @var
@item calendar
a @code{<gtk-calendar>}

@item flags
the display options to set

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-calendar-get-date  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-calendar>}) @result{}@tie{} (year@tie{}@code{unsigned-int}) (month@tie{}@code{unsigned-int}) (day@tie{}@code{unsigned-int})
@deffnx Method get-date
Obtains the selected date from a @code{<gtk-calendar>}.

@table @var
@item calendar
a @code{<gtk-calendar>}

@item year
location to store the year number, or @samp{@code{#f}}

@item month
location to store the month number (between 0 and 11), or @samp{@code{#f}}

@item day
location to store the day number (between 1 and 31), or @samp{@code{#f}}

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-calendar-freeze  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-calendar>})
@deffnx Method freeze
@samp{gtk_calendar_freeze} has been deprecated since version 2.8 and should not
be used in newly-written code.

Does nothing. Previously locked the display of the calendar until it was thawed
with @code{gtk-calendar-thaw}.

@table @var
@item calendar
a @code{<gtk-calendar>}

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-calendar-thaw  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-calendar>})
@deffnx Method thaw
@samp{gtk_calendar_thaw} has been deprecated since version 2.8 and should not be
used in newly-written code.

Does nothing. Previously defrosted a calendar; all the changes made since the
last @code{gtk-calendar-freeze} were displayed.

@table @var
@item calendar
a @code{<gtk-calendar>}

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
