
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-editable>
This @code{<gobject>} class defines no properties, other than those defined by
its superclasses.

@end deftp

@defop Signal <gtk-editable> changed 
Indicates that the user has changed the contents of the widget.

@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-editable> insert-text  (arg0@tie{}@code{<gchararray>}) (arg1@tie{}@code{<gint>}) (arg2@tie{}@code{<gpointer>})
This signal is emitted when text is inserted into the widget by the user. The
default handler for this signal will normally be responsible for inserting the
text, so by connecting to this signal and then stopping the signal with
@code{gtk-signal-emit-stop}, it is possible to modify the inserted text, or
prevent it from being inserted entirely.

@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-editable> delete-text  (arg0@tie{}@code{<gint>}) (arg1@tie{}@code{<gint>})
This signal is emitted when text is deleted from the widget by the user. The
default handler for this signal will normally be responsible for inserting the
text, so by connecting to this signal and then stopping the signal with
@code{gtk-signal-emit-stop}, it is possible to modify the inserted text, or
prevent it from being inserted entirely. The @var{start-pos} and @var{end-pos}
parameters are interpreted as for @code{gtk-editable-delete-text}

@end defop

@deffn Function gtk-editable-select-region  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-editable>}) (start@tie{}@code{int}) (end@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method select-region
Selects a region of text. The characters that are selected are those characters
at positions from @var{start-pos} up to, but not including @var{end-pos}. If
@var{end-pos} is negative, then the the characters selected will be those
characters from @var{start-pos} to the end of the text.

@table @var
@item editable
a @code{<gtk-editable>} widget.

@item start
the starting position.

@item end
the end position.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-editable-get-selection-bounds  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-editable>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool}) (start@tie{}@code{int}) (end@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-selection-bounds
Gets the current selection bounds, if there is a selection.

@table @var
@item editable
a @code{<gtk-editable>} widget.

@item start
location to store the starting position, or @samp{@code{#f}}.

@item end
location to store the end position, or @samp{@code{#f}}.

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if there is a selection.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-editable-insert-text  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-editable>}) (new_text@tie{}@code{mchars}) (position@tie{}@code{int}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method insert-text
Inserts text at a given position.

@table @var
@item editable
a @code{<gtk-editable>} widget.

@item new-text
the text to insert.

@item new-text-length
the length of the text to insert, in bytes

@item position
an inout parameter. The caller initializes it to the position at which to insert
the text. After the call it points at the position after the newly inserted
text.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-editable-delete-text  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-editable>}) (start_pos@tie{}@code{int}) (end_pos@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method delete-text
Deletes a sequence of characters. The characters that are deleted are those
characters at positions from @var{start-pos} up to, but not including
@var{end-pos}. If @var{end-pos} is negative, then the the characters deleted
will be those characters from @var{start-pos} to the end of the text.

@table @var
@item editable
a @code{<gtk-editable>} widget.

@item start-pos
the starting position.

@item end-pos
the end position.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-editable-get-chars  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-editable>}) (start_pos@tie{}@code{int}) (end_pos@tie{}@code{int}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-chars
Retrieves a sequence of characters. The characters that are retrieved are those
characters at positions from @var{start-pos} up to, but not including
@var{end-pos}. If @var{end-pos} is negative, then the the characters retrieved
will be those characters from @var{start-pos} to the end of the text.

@table @var
@item editable
a @code{<gtk-editable>} widget.

@item start-pos
the starting position.

@item end-pos
the end position.

@item ret
the characters in the indicated region. The result must be freed with
@code{g-free} when the application is finished with it.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-editable-cut-clipboard  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-editable>})
@deffnx Method cut-clipboard
Causes the characters in the current selection to be copied to the clipboard and
then deleted from the widget.

@table @var
@item editable
a @code{<gtk-editable>} widget.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-editable-copy-clipboard  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-editable>})
@deffnx Method copy-clipboard
Causes the characters in the current selection to be copied to the clipboard.

@table @var
@item editable
a @code{<gtk-editable>} widget.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-editable-paste-clipboard  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-editable>})
@deffnx Method paste-clipboard
Causes the contents of the clipboard to be pasted into the given widget at the
current cursor position.

@table @var
@item editable
a @code{<gtk-editable>} widget.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-editable-delete-selection  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-editable>})
@deffnx Method delete-selection
Deletes the current contents of the widgets selection and disclaims the
selection.

@table @var
@item editable
a @code{<gtk-editable>} widget.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-editable-set-position  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-editable>}) (position@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method set-position
Sets the cursor position.

@table @var
@item editable
a @code{<gtk-editable>} widget.

@item position
the position of the cursor. The cursor is displayed before the character with
the given (base 0) index in the widget. The value must be less than or equal to
the number of characters in the widget. A value of -1 indicates that the
position should be set after the last character in the entry. Note that this
position is in characters, not in bytes.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-editable-get-position  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-editable>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-position
Retrieves the current cursor position.

@table @var
@item editable
a @code{<gtk-editable>} widget.

@item ret
the position of the cursor. The cursor is displayed before the character with
the given (base 0) index in the widget. The value will be less than or equal to
the number of characters in the widget. Note that this position is in
characters, not in bytes.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-editable-set-editable  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-editable>}) (is_editable@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-editable
Determines if the user can edit the text in the editable widget or not.

@table @var
@item editable
a @code{<gtk-editable>} widget.

@item is-editable
@samp{@code{#t}} if the user is allowed to edit the text in the widget.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-editable-get-editable  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-editable>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-editable
Retrieves whether @var{editable} is editable. See
@code{gtk-editable-set-editable}.

@table @var
@item editable
a @code{<gtk-editable>}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if @var{editable} is editable.

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
