
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-size-group>
Derives from @code{<gtk-buildable>}, @code{<gobject>}.

This class defines the following properties:

@table @code
@item mode
The directions in which the size group affects the requested sizes of its
component widgets

@item ignore-hidden
If TRUE, unmapped widgets are ignored when determining the size of the group

@end table

@end deftp

@deffn Function gtk-size-group-new  (mode@tie{}@code{<gtk-size-group-mode>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-size-group>})
Create a new @code{<gtk-size-group>}.

@table @var
@item mode
the mode for the new size group.

@item ret
a newly created @code{<gtk-size-group>}

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-size-group-set-mode  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-size-group>}) (mode@tie{}@code{<gtk-size-group-mode>})
@deffnx Method set-mode
Sets the @code{<gtk-size-group-mode>} of the size group. The mode of the size
group determines whether the widgets in the size group should all have the same
horizontal requisition (@samp{GTK_SIZE_GROUP_MODE_HORIZONTAL}) all have the same
vertical requisition (@samp{GTK_SIZE_GROUP_MODE_VERTICAL}), or should all have
the same requisition in both directions (@samp{GTK_SIZE_GROUP_MODE_BOTH}).

@table @var
@item size-group
a @code{<gtk-size-group>}

@item mode
the mode to set for the size group.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-size-group-get-mode  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-size-group>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-size-group-mode>})
@deffnx Method get-mode
Gets the current mode of the size group. See @code{gtk-size-group-set-mode}.

@table @var
@item size-group
a @code{<gtk-size-group>}

@item ret
the current mode of the size group.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-size-group-set-ignore-hidden  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-size-group>}) (ignore_hidden@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-ignore-hidden
Sets whether unmapped widgets should be ignored when calculating the size.

@table @var
@item size-group
a @code{<gtk-size-group>}

@item ignore-hidden
whether unmapped widgets should be ignored when calculating the size

@end table

Since 2.8

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-size-group-get-ignore-hidden  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-size-group>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-ignore-hidden
Returns if invisible widgets are ignored when calculating the size.

@table @var
@item size-group
a @code{<gtk-size-group>}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if invisible widgets are ignored.

@end table

Since 2.8

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-size-group-add-widget  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-size-group>}) (widget@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
@deffnx Method add-widget
Adds a widget to a @code{<gtk-size-group>}. In the future, the requisition of
the widget will be determined as the maximum of its requisition and the
requisition of the other widgets in the size group. Whether this applies
horizontally, vertically, or in both directions depends on the mode of the size
group. See @code{gtk-size-group-set-mode}.

@table @var
@item size-group
a @code{<gtk-size-group>}

@item widget
the @code{<gtk-widget>} to add

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-size-group-remove-widget  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-size-group>}) (widget@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
@deffnx Method remove-widget
Removes a widget from a @code{<gtk-size-group>}.

@table @var
@item size-group
a @code{<gtk-size-grup>}

@item widget
the @code{<gtk-widget>} to remove

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
