
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-icon-view>
Derives from @code{<gtk-cell-layout>}, @code{<gtk-container>}.

This class defines the following properties:

@table @code
@item pixbuf-column
Model column used to retrieve the icon pixbuf from

@item text-column
Model column used to retrieve the text from

@item markup-column
Model column used to retrieve the text if using Pango markup

@item selection-mode
The selection mode

@item orientation
How the text and icon of each item are positioned relative to each other

@item model
The model for the icon view

@item columns
Number of columns to display

@item item-width
The width used for each item

@item spacing
Space which is inserted between cells of an item

@item row-spacing
Space which is inserted between grid rows

@item column-spacing
Space which is inserted between grid columns

@item margin
Space which is inserted at the edges of the icon view

@item reorderable
View is reorderable

@item tooltip-column
The column in the model containing the tooltip texts for the items

@end table

@end deftp

@defop Signal <gtk-icon-view> move-cursor  (arg0@tie{}@code{<gtk-movement-step>}) (arg1@tie{}@code{<gint>}) @result{}@tie{}@code{<gboolean>}
@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-icon-view> selection-changed 
@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-icon-view> set-scroll-adjustments  (arg0@tie{}@code{<gtk-adjustment>}) (arg1@tie{}@code{<gtk-adjustment>})
@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-icon-view> item-activated  (arg0@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-path>})
@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-icon-view> select-all 
@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-icon-view> unselect-all 
@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-icon-view> select-cursor-item 
@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-icon-view> toggle-cursor-item 
@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-icon-view> activate-cursor-item  @result{}@tie{}@code{<gboolean>}
@end defop

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-new  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-icon-view>} widget

@table @var
@item ret
A newly created @code{<gtk-icon-view>} widget

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-new-with-model  (model@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-model>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-icon-view>} widget with the model @var{model}.

@table @var
@item model
The model.

@item ret
A newly created @code{<gtk-icon-view>} widget.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-set-model  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) (model@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-model>})
@deffnx Method set-model
Sets the model for a @code{<gtk-icon-view>}. If the @var{icon-view} already has
a model set, it will remove it before setting the new model. If @var{model} is
@samp{@code{#f}}, then it will unset the old model.

@table @var
@item icon-view
A @code{<gtk-icon-view>}.

@item model
The model.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-get-model  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-model>})
@deffnx Method get-model
Returns the model the @code{<gtk-icon-view>} is based on. Returns
@samp{@code{#f}} if the model is unset.

@table @var
@item icon-view
a @code{<gtk-icon-view>}

@item ret
A @code{<gtk-tree-model>}, or @samp{@code{#f}} if none is currently being used.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-set-text-column  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) (column@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method set-text-column
Sets the column with text for @var{icon-view} to be @var{column}. The text
column must be of type @code{<g-type-string>}.

@table @var
@item icon-view
A @code{<gtk-icon-view>}.

@item column
A column in the currently used model.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-get-text-column  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-text-column
Returns the column with text for @var{icon-view}.

@table @var
@item icon-view
A @code{<gtk-icon-view>}.

@item ret
the text column, or -1 if it's unset.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-set-markup-column  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) (column@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method set-markup-column
Sets the column with markup information for @var{icon-view} to be @var{column}.
The markup column must be of type @code{<g-type-string>}. If the markup column
is set to something, it overrides the text column set by
@code{gtk-icon-view-set-text-column}.

@table @var
@item icon-view
A @code{<gtk-icon-view>}.

@item column
A column in the currently used model.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-get-markup-column  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-markup-column
Returns the column with markup text for @var{icon-view}.

@table @var
@item icon-view
A @code{<gtk-icon-view>}.

@item ret
the markup column, or -1 if it's unset.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-set-pixbuf-column  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) (column@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method set-pixbuf-column
Sets the column with pixbufs for @var{icon-view} to be @var{column}. The pixbuf
column must be of type @code{<gdk-type-pixbuf>}

@table @var
@item icon-view
A @code{<gtk-icon-view>}.

@item column
A column in the currently used model.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-get-pixbuf-column  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-pixbuf-column
Returns the column with pixbufs for @var{icon-view}.

@table @var
@item icon-view
A @code{<gtk-icon-view>}.

@item ret
the pixbuf column, or -1 if it's unset.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-get-path-at-pos  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) (x@tie{}@code{int}) (y@tie{}@code{int}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-path>})
@deffnx Method get-path-at-pos
Finds the path at the point (@var{x}, @var{y}), relative to widget coordinates.
See @code{gtk-icon-view-get-item-at-pos}, if you are also interested in the cell
at the specified position.

@table @var
@item icon-view
A @code{<gtk-icon-view>}.

@item x
The x position to be identified

@item y
The y position to be identified

@item ret
The @code{<gtk-tree-path>} corresponding to the icon or @samp{@code{#f}} if no
icon exists at that position.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-set-cursor  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) (path@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-path>}) (cell@tie{}@code{<gtk-cell-renderer>}) (start_editing@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-cursor
Sets the current keyboard focus to be at @var{path}, and selects it. This is
useful when you want to focus the user's attention on a particular item. If
@var{cell} is not @samp{@code{#f}}, then focus is given to the cell specified by
it. Additionally, if @var{start-editing} is @samp{@code{#t}}, then editing
should be started in the specified cell.

This function is often followed by @samp{gtk_widget_grab_focus (icon_view)} in
order to give keyboard focus to the widget. Please note that editing can only
happen when the widget is realized.

@table @var
@item icon-view
A @code{<gtk-icon-view>}

@item path
A @code{<gtk-tree-path>}

@item cell
One of the cell renderers of @var{icon-view}, or @samp{@code{#f}}

@item start-editing
@samp{@code{#t}} if the specified cell should start being edited.

@end table

Since 2.8

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-set-selection-mode  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) (mode@tie{}@code{<gtk-selection-mode>})
@deffnx Method set-selection-mode
Sets the selection mode of the @var{icon-view}.

@table @var
@item icon-view
A @code{<gtk-icon-view>}.

@item mode
The selection mode

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-get-selection-mode  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-selection-mode>})
@deffnx Method get-selection-mode
Gets the selection mode of the @var{icon-view}.

@table @var
@item icon-view
A @code{<gtk-icon-view>}.

@item ret
the current selection mode

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-set-orientation  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) (orientation@tie{}@code{<gtk-orientation>})
@deffnx Method set-orientation
Sets the ::orientation property which determines whether the labels are drawn
beside the icons instead of below.

@table @var
@item icon-view
a @code{<gtk-icon-view>}

@item orientation
the relative position of texts and icons

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-get-orientation  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-orientation>})
@deffnx Method get-orientation
Returns the value of the ::orientation property which determines whether the
labels are drawn beside the icons instead of below.

@table @var
@item icon-view
a @code{<gtk-icon-view>}

@item ret
the relative position of texts and icons

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-set-columns  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) (columns@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method set-columns
Sets the ::columns property which determines in how many columns the icons are
arranged. If @var{columns} is -1, the number of columns will be chosen
automatically to fill the available area.

@table @var
@item icon-view
a @code{<gtk-icon-view>}

@item columns
the number of columns

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-get-columns  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-columns
Returns the value of the ::columns property.

@table @var
@item icon-view
a @code{<gtk-icon-view>}

@item ret
the number of columns, or -1

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-set-item-width  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) (item_width@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method set-item-width
Sets the ::item-width property which specifies the width to use for each item.
If it is set to -1, the icon view will automatically determine a suitable item
size.

@table @var
@item icon-view
a @code{<gtk-icon-view>}

@item item-width
the width for each item

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-get-item-width  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-item-width
Returns the value of the ::item-width property.

@table @var
@item icon-view
a @code{<gtk-icon-view>}

@item ret
the width of a single item, or -1

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-set-spacing  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) (spacing@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method set-spacing
Sets the ::spacing property which specifies the space which is inserted between
the cells (i.e. the icon and the text) of an item.

@table @var
@item icon-view
a @code{<gtk-icon-view>}

@item spacing
the spacing

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-get-spacing  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-spacing
Returns the value of the ::spacing property.

@table @var
@item icon-view
a @code{<gtk-icon-view>}

@item ret
the space between cells

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-set-row-spacing  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) (row_spacing@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method set-row-spacing
Sets the ::row-spacing property which specifies the space which is inserted
between the rows of the icon view.

@table @var
@item icon-view
a @code{<gtk-icon-view>}

@item row-spacing
the row spacing

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-get-row-spacing  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-row-spacing
Returns the value of the ::row-spacing property.

@table @var
@item icon-view
a @code{<gtk-icon-view>}

@item ret
the space between rows

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-set-column-spacing  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) (column_spacing@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method set-column-spacing
Sets the ::column-spacing property which specifies the space which is inserted
between the columns of the icon view.

@table @var
@item icon-view
a @code{<gtk-icon-view>}

@item column-spacing
the column spacing

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-get-column-spacing  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-column-spacing
Returns the value of the ::column-spacing property.

@table @var
@item icon-view
a @code{<gtk-icon-view>}

@item ret
the space between columns

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-set-margin  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) (margin@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method set-margin
Sets the ::margin property which specifies the space which is inserted at the
top, bottom, left and right of the icon view.

@table @var
@item icon-view
a @code{<gtk-icon-view>}

@item margin
the margin

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-get-margin  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-margin
Returns the value of the ::margin property.

@table @var
@item icon-view
a @code{<gtk-icon-view>}

@item ret
the space at the borders

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-select-path  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) (path@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-path>})
@deffnx Method select-path
Selects the row at @var{path}.

@table @var
@item icon-view
A @code{<gtk-icon-view>}.

@item path
The @code{<gtk-tree-path>} to be selected.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-unselect-path  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) (path@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-path>})
@deffnx Method unselect-path
Unselects the row at @var{path}.

@table @var
@item icon-view
A @code{<gtk-icon-view>}.

@item path
The @code{<gtk-tree-path>} to be unselected.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-path-is-selected  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) (path@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-path>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method path-is-selected
Returns @samp{@code{#t}} if the icon pointed to by @var{path} is currently
selected. If @var{icon} does not point to a valid location, @samp{@code{#f}} is
returned.

@table @var
@item icon-view
A @code{<gtk-icon-view>}.

@item path
A @code{<gtk-tree-path>} to check selection on.

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if @var{path} is selected.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-get-selected-items  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{glist-of})
@deffnx Method get-selected-items
Creates a list of paths of all selected items. Additionally, if you are planning
on modifying the model after calling this function, you may want to convert the
returned list into a list of @code{<gtk-tree-row-reference>}s. To do this, you
can use @code{gtk-tree-row-reference-new}.

To free the return value, use:

@example 

g_list_foreach (list, gtk_tree_path_free, NULL);
g_list_free (list);
@end example

@table @var
@item icon-view
A @code{<gtk-icon-view>}.

@item ret
A @code{<g-list>} containing a @code{<gtk-tree-path>} for each selected row.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-select-all  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>})
@deffnx Method select-all
Selects all the icons. @var{icon-view} must has its selection mode set to
@code{<gtk-selection-multiple>}.

@table @var
@item icon-view
A @code{<gtk-icon-view>}.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-unselect-all  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>})
@deffnx Method unselect-all
Unselects all the icons.

@table @var
@item icon-view
A @code{<gtk-icon-view>}.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-item-activated  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) (path@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-path>})
@deffnx Method item-activated
Activates the item determined by @var{path}.

@table @var
@item icon-view
A @code{<gtk-icon-view>}

@item path
The @code{<gtk-tree-path>} to be activated

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-scroll-to-path  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) (path@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-path>}) (use_align@tie{}@code{bool}) (row_align@tie{}@code{float}) (col_align@tie{}@code{float})
@deffnx Method scroll-to-path
Moves the alignments of @var{icon-view} to the position specified by @var{path}.
@var{row-align} determines where the row is placed, and @var{col-align}
determines where @var{column} is placed. Both are expected to be between 0.0 and
1.0. 0.0 means left/top alignment, 1.0 means right/bottom alignment, 0.5 means
center.

If @var{use-align} is @samp{@code{#f}}, then the alignment arguments are
ignored, and the tree does the minimum amount of work to scroll the item onto
the screen. This means that the item will be scrolled to the edge closest to its
current position. If the item is currently visible on the screen, nothing is
done.

This function only works if the model is set, and @var{path} is a valid row on
the model. If the model changes before the @var{icon-view} is realized, the
centered path will be modified to reflect this change.

@table @var
@item icon-view
A @code{<gtk-icon-view>}.

@item path
The path of the item to move to.

@item use-align
whether to use alignment arguments, or @samp{@code{#f}}.

@item row-align
The vertical alignment of the item specified by @var{path}.

@item col-align
The horizontal alignment of the item specified by @var{path}.

@end table

Since 2.8

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-unset-model-drag-dest  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>})
@deffnx Method unset-model-drag-dest
Undoes the effect of @code{gtk-icon-view-enable-model-drag-dest}.

@table @var
@item icon-view
a @code{<gtk-icon-view>}

@end table

Since 2.8

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-set-reorderable  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) (reorderable@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-reorderable
This function is a convenience function to allow you to reorder models that
support the @code{<gtk-tree-drag-source-iface>} and the
@code{<gtk-tree-drag-dest-iface>}. Both @code{<gtk-tree-store>} and
@code{<gtk-list-store>} support these. If @var{reorderable} is @samp{@code{#t}},
then the user can reorder the model by dragging and dropping rows. The developer
can listen to these changes by connecting to the model's row_inserted and
row_deleted signals.

This function does not give you any degree of control over the order -- any
reordering is allowed. If more control is needed, you should probably handle
drag and drop manually.

@table @var
@item icon-view
A @code{<gtk-icon-view>}.

@item reorderable
@samp{@code{#t}}, if the list of items can be reordered.

@end table

Since 2.8

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-get-reorderable  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-reorderable
Retrieves whether the user can reorder the list via drag-and-drop. See
@code{gtk-icon-view-set-reorderable}.

@table @var
@item icon-view
a @code{<gtk-icon-view>}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if the list can be reordered.

@end table

Since 2.8

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-set-drag-dest-item  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) (path@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-path>}) (pos@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view-drop-position>})
@deffnx Method set-drag-dest-item
Sets the item that is highlighted for feedback.

@table @var
@item icon-view
a @code{<gtk-icon-view>}

@item path
The path of the item to highlight, or @samp{@code{#f}}.

@item pos
Specifies where to drop, relative to the item

@end table

Since 2.8

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-icon-view-create-drag-icon  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-view>}) (path@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-path>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gdk-pixmap*>})
@deffnx Method create-drag-icon
Creates a @code{<gdk-pixmap>} representation of the item at @var{path}. This
image is used for a drag icon.

@table @var
@item icon-view
a @code{<gtk-icon-view>}

@item path
a @code{<gtk-tree-path>} in @var{icon-view}

@item ret
a newly-allocated pixmap of the drag icon.

@end table

Since 2.8

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
