
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-cell-renderer-toggle>
This @code{<gobject>} class defines the following properties:

@table @code
@item activatable
The toggle button can be activated@item active
The toggle state of the button@item radio
Draw the toggle button as a radio button@item inconsistent
The inconsistent state of the button@item indicator-size
Size of check or radio indicator@end table

@end deftp

@defop Signal <gtk-cell-renderer-toggle> toggled  (arg0@tie{}@code{<gchararray>})
The ::toggled signal is emitted when the cell is toggled.

@end defop

@deffn Function gtk-cell-renderer-toggle-new  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-cell-renderer>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-cell-renderer-toggle>}. Adjust rendering parameters
using object properties. Object properties can be set globally (with
@code{g-object-set}). Also, with @code{<gtk-tree-view-column>}, you can bind a
property to a value in a @code{<gtk-tree-model>}. For example, you can bind the
"active" property on the cell renderer to a boolean value in the model, thus
causing the check button to reflect the state of the model.

@table @var
@item ret
the new cell renderer

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-cell-renderer-toggle-get-radio  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-cell-renderer-toggle>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-radio
Returns whether we're rendering radio toggles rather than checkboxes.

@table @var
@item toggle
a @code{<gtk-cell-renderer-toggle>}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if we're rendering radio toggles rather than checkboxes

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-cell-renderer-toggle-set-radio  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-cell-renderer-toggle>}) (radio@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-radio
If @var{radio} is @samp{@code{#t}}, the cell renderer renders a radio toggle
(i.e. a toggle in a group of mutually-exclusive toggles). If @samp{@code{#f}},
it renders a check toggle (a standalone boolean option). This can be set
globally for the cell renderer, or changed just before rendering each cell in
the model (for @code{<gtk-tree-view>}, you set up a per-row setting using
@code{<gtk-tree-view-column>} to associate model columns with cell renderer
properties).

@table @var
@item toggle
a @code{<gtk-cell-renderer-toggle>}

@item radio
@samp{@code{#t}} to make the toggle look like a radio button

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-cell-renderer-toggle-get-active  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-cell-renderer-toggle>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-active
Returns whether the cell renderer is active. See
@code{gtk-cell-renderer-toggle-set-active}.

@table @var
@item toggle
a @code{<gtk-cell-renderer-toggle>}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if the cell renderer is active.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-cell-renderer-toggle-set-active  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-cell-renderer-toggle>}) (setting@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-active
Activates or deactivates a cell renderer.

@table @var
@item toggle
a @code{<gtk-cell-renderer-toggle>}.

@item setting
the value to set.

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
