
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-misc>
This @code{<gobject>} class defines the following properties:

@table @code
@item xalign
The horizontal alignment, from 0 (left) to 1 (right). Reversed for RTL layouts.@item yalign
The vertical alignment, from 0 (top) to 1 (bottom)@item xpad
The amount of space to add on the left and right of the widget, in pixels@item ypad
The amount of space to add on the top and bottom of the widget, in pixels@end table

@end deftp

@deffn Function gtk-misc-set-alignment  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-misc>}) (xalign@tie{}@code{float}) (yalign@tie{}@code{float})
@deffnx Method set-alignment
Sets the alignment of the widget.

@table @var
@item misc
a @code{<gtk-misc>}.

@item xalign
the horizontal alignment, from 0 (left) to 1 (right).

@item yalign
the vertical alignment, from 0 (top) to 1 (bottom).

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-misc-set-padding  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-misc>}) (xpad@tie{}@code{int}) (ypad@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method set-padding
Sets the amount of space to add around the widget.

@table @var
@item misc
a @code{<gtk-misc>}.

@item xpad
the amount of space to add on the left and right of the widget, in pixels.

@item ypad
the amount of space to add on the top and bottom of the widget, in pixels.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-misc-get-alignment  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-misc>}) @result{}@tie{} (xalign@tie{}@code{float}) (yalign@tie{}@code{float})
@deffnx Method get-alignment
Gets the X and Y alignment of the widget within its allocation. See
@code{gtk-misc-set-alignment}.

@table @var
@item misc
a @code{<gtk-misc>}

@item xalign
location to store X alignment of @var{misc}, or @samp{@code{#f}}

@item yalign
location to store Y alignment of @var{misc}, or @samp{@code{#f}}

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-misc-get-padding  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-misc>}) @result{}@tie{} (xpad@tie{}@code{int}) (ypad@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-padding
Gets the padding in the X and Y directions of the widget. See
@code{gtk-misc-set-padding}.

@table @var
@item misc
a @code{<gtk-misc>}

@item xpad
location to store padding in the X direction, or @samp{@code{#f}}

@item ypad
location to store padding in the Y direction, or @samp{@code{#f}}

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
