
@c %start of fragment

@deffn Function gtk-file-filter-new  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-file-filter*>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-file-filter>} with no rules added to it. Such a filter
doesn't accept any files, so is not particularly useful until you add rules with
@code{gtk-file-filter-add-mime-type}, @code{gtk-file-filter-add-pattern}, or
@code{gtk-file-filter-add-custom}. To create a filter that accepts any file,
use:

@example 

GtkFileFilter *filter = gtk_file_filter_new ();
gtk_file_filter_add_pattern (filter, "*");
@end example

@table @var
@item ret
a new @code{<gtk-file-filter>}

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-file-filter-set-name  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-file-filter*>}) (name@tie{}@code{mchars})
Sets the human-readable name of the filter; this is the string that will be
displayed in the file selector user interface if there is a selectable list of
filters.

@table @var
@item filter
a @code{<gtk-file-filter>}

@item name
the human-readable-name for the filter, or @samp{@code{#f}} to remove any
existing name.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-file-filter-get-name  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-file-filter*>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
Gets the human-readable name for the filter. See
@code{gtk-file-filter-set-name}.

@table @var
@item filter
a @code{<gtk-file-filter>}

@item ret
The human-readable name of the filter, or @samp{@code{#f}}. This value is owned
by GTK+ and must not be modified or freed.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-file-filter-add-mime-type  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-file-filter*>}) (mime_type@tie{}@code{mchars})
Adds a rule allowing a given mime type to @var{filter}.

@table @var
@item filter
A @code{<gtk-file-filter>}

@item mime-type
name of a MIME type

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-file-filter-add-pattern  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-file-filter*>}) (pattern@tie{}@code{mchars})
Adds a rule allowing a shell style glob to a filter.

@table @var
@item filter
a @code{<gtk-file-filter>}

@item pattern
a shell style glob

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-file-filter-add-pixbuf-formats  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-file-filter*>})
Adds a rule allowing image files in the formats supported by GdkPixbuf.

@table @var
@item filter
a @code{<gtk-file-filter>}

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-file-filter-add-custom  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-file-filter*>}) (needed@tie{}@code{<gtk-file-filter-flags>}) (func@tie{}@code{<gtk-file-filter-func>}) (data@tie{}@code{<gpointer>}) (notify@tie{}@code{<g-destroy-notify>})
Adds rule to a filter that allows files based on a custom callback function. The
bitfield @var{needed} which is passed in provides information about what sorts
of information that the filter function needs; this allows GTK+ to avoid
retrieving expensive information when it isn't needed by the filter.

@table @var
@item filter
a @code{<gtk-file-filter>}

@item needed
bitfield of flags indicating the information that the custom filter function
needs.

@item func
callback function; if the function returns @samp{@code{#t}}, then the file will
be displayed.

@item data
data to pass to @var{func}

@item notify
function to call to free @var{data} when it is no longer needed.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-file-filter-get-needed  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-file-filter*>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-file-filter-flags>})
Gets the fields that need to be filled in for the structure passed to
@code{gtk-file-filter-filter}

This function will not typically be used by applications; it is intended
principally for use in the implementation of @code{<gtk-file-chooser>}.

@table @var
@item filter
a @code{<gtk-file-filter>}

@item ret
bitfield of flags indicating needed fields when calling
@code{gtk-file-filter-filter}

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-file-filter-filter  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-file-filter*>}) (filter_info@tie{}@code{<gtk-file-filter-info*>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
Tests whether a file should be displayed according to @var{filter}. The
@code{<gtk-file-filter-info>} structure @var{filter-info} should include the
fields returned from @code{gtk-file-filter-get-needed}.

This function will not typically be used by applications; it is intended
principally for use in the implementation of @code{<gtk-file-chooser>}.

@table @var
@item filter
a @code{<gtk-file-filter>}

@item filter-info
a @code{<gtk-file-filter-info>} structure containing information about a file.

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if the file should be displayed

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
