
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-image-menu-item>
This @code{<gobject>} class defines the following properties:

@table @code
@item image
Child widget to appear next to the menu text@end table

@end deftp

@deffn Function gtk-image-menu-item-set-image  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-image-menu-item>}) (image@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
@deffnx Method set-image
Sets the image of @var{image-menu-item} to the given widget. Note that it
depends on the show-menu-images setting whether the image will be displayed or
not.

@table @var
@item image-menu-item
a @code{<gtk-image-menu-item>}.

@item image
a widget to set as the image for the menu item.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-image-menu-item-get-image  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-image-menu-item>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
@deffnx Method get-image
Gets the widget that is currently set as the image of @var{image-menu-item}. See
@code{gtk-image-menu-item-set-image}.

@table @var
@item image-menu-item
a @code{<gtk-image-menu-item>}.

@item ret
the widget set as image of @var{image-menu-item}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-image-menu-item-new  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-image-menu-item>} with an empty label.

@table @var
@item ret
a new @code{<gtk-image-menu-item>}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-image-menu-item-new-from-stock  (stock_id@tie{}@code{mchars}) (accel_group@tie{}@code{<gtk-accel-group>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-image-menu-item>} containing the image and text from a
stock item. Some stock ids have preprocessor macros like @code{<gtk-stock-ok>}
and @code{<gtk-stock-apply>}.

If you want this menu item to have changeable accelerators, then pass in
@samp{@code{#f}} for accel_group. Next call @code{gtk-menu-item-set-accel-path}
with an appropriate path for the menu item, use @code{gtk-stock-lookup} to look
up the standard accelerator for the stock item, and if one is found, call
@code{gtk-accel-map-add-entry} to register it.

@table @var
@item stock-id
the name of the stock item.

@item accel-group
the @code{<gtk-accel-group>} to add the menu items accelerator to, or
@samp{@code{#f}}.

@item ret
a new @code{<gtk-image-menu-item>}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-image-menu-item-new-with-label  (label@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-image-menu-item>} containing a label.

@table @var
@item label
the text of the menu item.

@item ret
a new @code{<gtk-image-menu-item>}.

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
