
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-scale>
Derives from @code{<gtk-range>}.

This class defines the following slots:

@table @code
@item digits
The number of decimal places that are displayed in the value

@item draw-value
Whether the current value is displayed as a string next to the slider

@item value-pos
The position in which the current value is displayed

@end table

@end deftp

@defop Signal <gtk-scale> format-value  (arg0@tie{}@code{<gdouble>}) @result{}@tie{}@code{<gchararray>}
Signal which allows you to change how the scale value is displayed. Connect a
signal handler which returns an allocated string representing @var{value}. That
string will then be used to display the scale's value. Here's an example signal
handler which displays a value 1.0 as with "-->1.0<--".

@example 

static gchar*
format_value_callback (GtkScale *scale,
                       gdouble   value)
@{
  return g_strdup_printf ("-->%0.*g<--",
                          gtk_scale_get_digits (scale), value);
@}
@end example

@end defop

@deffn Function gtk-scale-set-digits  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-scale>}) (digits@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method set-digits
Sets the number of decimal places that are displayed in the value. Also causes
the value of the adjustment to be rounded off to this number of digits, so the
retrieved value matches the value the user saw.

@table @var
@item scale
a @code{<gtk-scale>}.

@item digits
the number of decimal places to display, e.g. use 1 to display 1.0, 2 to display
1.00 etc.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-scale-set-draw-value  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-scale>}) (draw_value@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-draw-value
Specifies whether the current value is displayed as a string next to the slider.

@table @var
@item scale
a @code{<gtk-scale>}.

@item draw-value
a boolean.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-scale-set-value-pos  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-scale>}) (pos@tie{}@code{<gtk-position-type>})
@deffnx Method set-value-pos
Sets the position in which the current value is displayed.

@table @var
@item scale
a @code{<gtk-scale>}.

@item pos
the position in which the current value is displayed.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-scale-get-digits  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-scale>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-digits
Gets the number of decimal places that are displayed in the value.

@table @var
@item scale
a @code{<gtk-scale>}.

@item ret
the number of decimal places that are displayed.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-scale-get-draw-value  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-scale>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-draw-value
Returns whether the current value is displayed as a string next to the slider.

@table @var
@item scale
a @code{<gtk-scale>}.

@item ret
whether the current value is displayed as a string.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-scale-get-value-pos  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-scale>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-position-type>})
@deffnx Method get-value-pos
Gets the position in which the current value is displayed.

@table @var
@item scale
a @code{<gtk-scale>}.

@item ret
the position in which the current value is displayed.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-scale-get-layout  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-scale>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<pango-layout>})
@deffnx Method get-layout
Gets the @code{<pango-layout>} used to display the scale. The returned object is
owned by the scale so does not need to be freed by the caller.

@table @var
@item scale
A @code{<gtk-scale>}

@item ret
the @code{<pango-layout>} for this scale, or @samp{@code{#f}} if the draw_value
property is @samp{@code{#f}}.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-scale-get-layout-offsets  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-scale>}) @result{}@tie{} (x@tie{}@code{int}) (y@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-layout-offsets
Obtains the coordinates where the scale will draw the @code{<pango-layout>}
representing the text in the scale. Remember when using the
@code{<pango-layout>} function you need to convert to and from pixels using
@code{pango-pixels} or @code{<pango-scale>}.

If the draw_value property is @samp{@code{#f}}, the return values are undefined.

@table @var
@item scale
a @code{<gtk-scale>}

@item x
location to store X offset of layout, or @samp{@code{#f}}

@item y
location to store Y offset of layout, or @samp{@code{#f}}

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
