
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-text-mark>
This @code{<gobject>} class defines the following properties:

@table @code
@item name
Mark name@item left-gravity
Whether the mark has left gravity@end table

@end deftp

@deffn Function gtk-text-mark-set-visible  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-text-mark>}) (setting@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-visible
Sets the visibility of @var{mark}; the insertion point is normally visible, i.e.
you can see it as a vertical bar. Also, the text widget uses a visible mark to
indicate where a drop will occur when dragging-and-dropping text. Most other
marks are not visible. Marks are not visible by default.

@table @var
@item mark
a @code{<gtk-text-mark>}

@item setting
visibility of mark

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-text-mark-get-visible  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-text-mark>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-visible
Returns @samp{@code{#t}} if the mark is visible (i.e. a cursor is displayed for
it)

@table @var
@item mark
a @code{<gtk-text-mark>}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if visible

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-text-mark-get-deleted  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-text-mark>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-deleted
Returns @samp{@code{#t}} if the mark has been removed from its buffer with
@code{gtk-text-buffer-delete-mark}. Marks can't be used once deleted.

@table @var
@item mark
a @code{<gtk-text-mark>}

@item ret
whether the mark is deleted

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-text-mark-get-name  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-text-mark>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-name
Returns the mark name; returns NULL for anonymous marks.

@table @var
@item mark
a @code{<gtk-text-mark>}

@item ret
mark name

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-text-mark-get-buffer  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-text-mark>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-text-buffer>})
@deffnx Method get-buffer
Gets the buffer this mark is located inside, or NULL if the mark is deleted.

@table @var
@item mark
a @code{<gtk-text-mark>}

@item ret
the mark's @code{<gtk-text-buffer>}

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-text-mark-get-left-gravity  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-text-mark>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-left-gravity
Determines whether the mark has left gravity.

@table @var
@item mark
a @code{<gtk-text-mark>}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if the mark has left gravity, @samp{@code{#f}} otherwise

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
