
@c %start of fragment

@deffn Function gtk-drag-dest-set  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) (flags@tie{}@code{<gtk-dest-defaults>}) (types@tie{}@code{glist-of}) (actions@tie{}@code{<gdk-drag-action>})
Sets a widget as a potential drop destination.

@table @var
@item widget
a @code{<gtk-widget>}

@item flags
the flags that specify what actions GTK+ should take on behalf of a widget for
drops onto that widget. The @var{targets} and @var{actions} fields only are used
if @samp{GTK_DEST_DEFAULT_MOTION} or @samp{GTK_DEST_DEFAULT_DROP} are given.

@item targets
a pointer to an array of @code{<gtk-target-entry>}s indicating the drop types
that this widget will accept.

@item n-targets
the number of entries in @var{targets}.

@item actions
a bitmask of possible actions for a drop onto this widget.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-dest-set-proxy  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) (proxy_window@tie{}@code{<gdk-window*>}) (protocol@tie{}@code{<gdk-drag-protocol>}) (use_coordinates@tie{}@code{bool})
Sets this widget as a proxy for drops to another window.

@table @var
@item widget
a @code{<gtk-widget>}

@item proxy-window
the window to which to forward drag events

@item protocol
the drag protocol which the @var{proxy-window} accepts (You can use
@code{gdk-drag-get-protocol} to determine this)

@item use-coordinates
If @samp{@code{#t}}, send the same coordinates to the destination, because it is
an embedded subwindow.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-dest-unset  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Clears information about a drop destination set with @code{gtk-drag-dest-set}.
The widget will no longer receive notification of drags.

@table @var
@item widget
a @code{<gtk-widget>}

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-dest-find-target  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) (context@tie{}@code{<gdk-drag-context>}) (target_list@tie{}@code{<gtk-target-list*>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gdk-atom>})
Looks for a match between @var{context->targets} and the @var{dest-target-list},
returning the first matching target, otherwise returning @samp{GDK_NONE}.
@var{dest-target-list} should usually be the return value from
@code{gtk-drag-dest-get-target-list}, but some widgets may have different valid
targets for different parts of the widget; in that case, they will have to
implement a drag_motion handler that passes the correct target list to this
function.

@table @var
@item widget
drag destination widget

@item context
drag context

@item target-list
list of droppable targets, or @samp{@code{#f}} to use
gtk_drag_dest_get_target_list (@var{widget}).

@item ret
first target that the source offers and the dest can accept, or @samp{GDK_NONE}

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-dest-get-target-list  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-target-list*>})
Returns the list of targets this widget can accept from drag-and-drop.

@table @var
@item widget
a @code{<gtk-widget>}

@item ret
the @code{<gtk-target-list>}, or @samp{@code{#f}} if none

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-dest-set-target-list  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) (target_list@tie{}@code{<gtk-target-list*>})
Sets the target types that this widget can accept from drag-and-drop. The widget
must first be made into a drag destination with @code{gtk-drag-dest-set}.

@table @var
@item widget
a @code{<gtk-widget>} that's a drag destination

@item target-list
list of droppable targets, or @samp{@code{#f}} for none

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-dest-add-text-targets  (widget@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Add the text targets supported by @code{<gtk-selection>} to the target list of
the drag destination. The targets are added with @var{info} = 0. If you need
another value, use @code{gtk-target-list-add-text-targets} and
@code{gtk-drag-dest-set-target-list}.

@table @var
@item widget
a @code{<gtk-widget>} that's a drag destination

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-dest-add-image-targets  (widget@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Add the image targets supported by @code{<gtk-selection>} to the target list of
the drag destination. The targets are added with @var{info} = 0. If you need
another value, use @code{gtk-target-list-add-image-targets} and
@code{gtk-drag-dest-set-target-list}.

@table @var
@item widget
a @code{<gtk-widget>} that's a drag destination

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-dest-add-uri-targets  (widget@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Add the URI targets supported by @code{<gtk-selection>} to the target list of
the drag destination. The targets are added with @var{info} = 0. If you need
another value, use @code{gtk-target-list-add-uri-targets} and
@code{gtk-drag-dest-set-target-list}.

@table @var
@item widget
a @code{<gtk-widget>} that's a drag destination

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-dest-set-track-motion  (widget@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) (track_motion@tie{}@code{bool})
Tells the widget to emit ::drag-motion and ::drag-leave events regardless of the
targets and the @samp{GTK_DEST_DEFAULT_MOTION} flag.

This may be used when a widget wants to do generic actions regardless of the
targets that the source offers.

@table @var
@item widget
a @code{<gtk-widget>} that's a drag destination

@item track-motion
whether to accept all targets

@end table

Since 2.10

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-dest-get-track-motion  (widget@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
Returns whether the widget has been configured to always emit ::drag-motion
signals.

@table @var
@item widget
a @code{<gtk-widget>} that's a drag destination

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if the widget always emits ::drag-motion events

@end table

Since 2.10

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-finish  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-drag-context>}) (success@tie{}@code{bool}) (del@tie{}@code{bool}) (time@tie{}@code{unsigned-int32})
Informs the drag source that the drop is finished, and that the data of the drag
will no longer be required.

@table @var
@item context
the drag context.

@item success
a flag indicating whether the drop was successful

@item del
a flag indicating whether the source should delete the original data. (This
should be @samp{@code{#t}} for a move)

@item time
the timestamp from the "drag_data_drop" signal.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-get-data  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) (context@tie{}@code{<gdk-drag-context>}) (target@tie{}@code{<gdk-atom>}) (time@tie{}@code{unsigned-int32})
Gets the data associated with a drag. When the data is received or the retrieval
fails, GTK+ will emit a "drag_data_received" signal. Failure of the retrieval is
indicated by the length field of the @var{selection-data} signal parameter being
negative. However, when @code{gtk-drag-get-data} is called implicitely because
the @samp{GTK_DEST_DEFAULT_DROP} was set, then the widget will not receive
notification of failed drops.

@table @var
@item widget
the widget that will receive the "drag_data_received" signal.

@item context
the drag context

@item target
the target (form of the data) to retrieve.

@item time
a timestamp for retrieving the data. This will generally be the time received in
a "drag_data_motion" or "drag_data_drop" signal.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-get-source-widget  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-drag-context>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Determines the source widget for a drag.

@table @var
@item context
a (destination side) drag context.

@item ret
if the drag is occurring within a single application, a pointer to the source
widget. Otherwise, @samp{@code{#f}}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-highlight  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Draws a highlight around a widget. This will attach handlers to "expose_event"
and "draw", so the highlight will continue to be displayed until
@code{gtk-drag-unhighlight} is called.

@table @var
@item widget
a widget to highlight

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-unhighlight  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Removes a highlight set by @code{gtk-drag-highlight} from a widget.

@table @var
@item widget
a widget to remove the highlight from.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-begin  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) (targets@tie{}@code{<gtk-target-list*>}) (actions@tie{}@code{<gdk-drag-action>}) (button@tie{}@code{int}) (event@tie{}@code{<gdk-event>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gdk-drag-context>})
Initiates a drag on the source side. The function only needs to be used when the
application is starting drags itself, and is not needed when
@code{gtk-drag-source-set} is used.

@table @var
@item widget
the source widget.

@item targets
The targets (data formats) in which the source can provide the data.

@item actions
A bitmask of the allowed drag actions for this drag.

@item button
The button the user clicked to start the drag.

@item event
The event that triggered the start of the drag.

@item ret
the context for this drag.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-set-icon-widget  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-drag-context>}) (widget@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) (hot_x@tie{}@code{int}) (hot_y@tie{}@code{int})
Changes the icon for a widget to a given widget. GTK+ will not destroy the icon,
so if you don't want it to persist, you should connect to the "drag_end" signal
and destroy it yourself.

@table @var
@item context
the context for a drag. (This must be called with a context for the source side
of a drag)

@item widget
a toplevel window to use as an icon.

@item hot-x
the X offset within @var{widget} of the hotspot.

@item hot-y
the Y offset within @var{widget} of the hotspot.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-set-icon-pixmap  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-drag-context>}) (colormap@tie{}@code{<gdk-colormap>}) (pixmap@tie{}@code{<gdk-pixmap*>}) (mask@tie{}@code{<gdk-bitmap*>}) (hot_x@tie{}@code{int}) (hot_y@tie{}@code{int})
Sets @var{pixmap} as the icon for a given drag. GTK+ retains references for the
arguments, and will release them when they are no longer needed. In general,
@code{gtk-drag-set-icon-pixbuf} will be more convenient to use.

@table @var
@item context
the context for a drag. (This must be called with a context for the source side
of a drag)

@item colormap
the colormap of the icon

@item pixmap
the image data for the icon

@item mask
the transparency mask for the icon

@item hot-x
the X offset within @var{pixmap} of the hotspot.

@item hot-y
the Y offset within @var{pixmap} of the hotspot.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-set-icon-pixbuf  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-drag-context>}) (pixbuf@tie{}@code{<gdk-pixbuf>}) (hot_x@tie{}@code{int}) (hot_y@tie{}@code{int})
Sets @var{pixbuf} as the icon for a given drag.

@table @var
@item context
the context for a drag. (This must be called with a context for the source side
of a drag)

@item pixbuf
the @code{<gdk-pixbuf>} to use as the drag icon.

@item hot-x
the X offset within @var{widget} of the hotspot.

@item hot-y
the Y offset within @var{widget} of the hotspot.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-set-icon-stock  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-drag-context>}) (stock_id@tie{}@code{mchars}) (hot_x@tie{}@code{int}) (hot_y@tie{}@code{int})
Sets the icon for a given drag from a stock ID.

@table @var
@item context
the context for a drag. (This must be called with a context for the source side
of a drag)

@item stock-id
the ID of the stock icon to use for the drag.

@item hot-x
the X offset within the icon of the hotspot.

@item hot-y
the Y offset within the icon of the hotspot.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-set-icon-name  (context@tie{}@code{<gdk-drag-context>}) (icon_name@tie{}@code{mchars}) (hot_x@tie{}@code{int}) (hot_y@tie{}@code{int})
Sets the icon for a given drag from a named themed icon. See the docs for
@code{<gtk-icon-theme>} for more details. Note that the size of the icon depends
on the icon theme (the icon is loaded at the symbolic size
@code{<gtk-icon-size-dnd>}), thus @var{hot-x} and @var{hot-y} have to be used
with care.

@table @var
@item context
the context for a drag. (This must be called with a context for the source side
of a drag)

@item icon-name
name of icon to use

@item hot-x
the X offset of the hotspot within the icon

@item hot-y
the Y offset of the hotspot within the icon

@end table

Since 2.8

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-set-icon-default  (self@tie{}@code{<gdk-drag-context>})
Sets the icon for a particular drag to the default icon.

@table @var
@item context
the context for a drag. (This must be called with a context for the source side
of a drag)

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-check-threshold  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) (start_x@tie{}@code{int}) (start_y@tie{}@code{int}) (current_x@tie{}@code{int}) (current_y@tie{}@code{int}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
Checks to see if a mouse drag starting at (@var{start-x}, @var{start-y}) and
ending at (@var{current-x}, @var{current-y}) has passed the GTK+ drag threshold,
and thus should trigger the beginning of a drag-and-drop operation.

@table @var
@item widget
a @code{<gtk-widget>}

@item start-x
X coordinate of start of drag

@item start-y
Y coordinate of start of drag

@item current-x
current X coordinate

@item current-y
current Y coordinate

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if the drag threshold has been passed.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-source-set  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) (start_button_mask@tie{}@code{<gdk-modifier-type>}) (targets@tie{}@code{<gtk-target-entry*>}) (n_targets@tie{}@code{int}) (actions@tie{}@code{<gdk-drag-action>})
Sets up a widget so that GTK+ will start a drag operation when the user clicks
and drags on the widget. The widget must have a window.

@table @var
@item widget
a @code{<gtk-widget>}

@item start-button-mask
the bitmask of buttons that can start the drag

@item targets
the table of targets that the drag will support

@item n-targets
the number of items in @var{targets}

@item actions
the bitmask of possible actions for a drag from this widget.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-source-set-icon  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) (colormap@tie{}@code{<gdk-colormap>}) (pixmap@tie{}@code{<gdk-pixmap*>}) (mask@tie{}@code{<gdk-bitmap*>})
Sets the icon that will be used for drags from a particular widget from a
pixmap/mask. GTK+ retains references for the arguments, and will release them
when they are no longer needed. Use @code{gtk-drag-source-set-icon-pixbuf}
instead.

@table @var
@item widget
a @code{<gtk-widget>}

@item colormap
the colormap of the icon

@item pixmap
the image data for the icon

@item mask
the transparency mask for an image.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-source-set-icon-pixbuf  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) (pixbuf@tie{}@code{<gdk-pixbuf>})
Sets the icon that will be used for drags from a particular widget from a
@code{<gdk-pixbuf>}. GTK+ retains a reference for @var{pixbuf} and will release
it when it is no longer needed.

@table @var
@item widget
a @code{<gtk-widget>}

@item pixbuf
the @code{<gdk-pixbuf>} for the drag icon

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-source-set-icon-stock  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) (stock_id@tie{}@code{mchars})
Sets the icon that will be used for drags from a particular source to a stock
icon.

@table @var
@item widget
a @code{<gtk-widget>}

@item stock-id
the ID of the stock icon to use

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-source-set-icon-name  (widget@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) (icon_name@tie{}@code{mchars})
Sets the icon that will be used for drags from a particular source to a themed
icon. See the docs for @code{<gtk-icon-theme>} for more details.

@table @var
@item widget
a @code{<gtk-widget>}

@item icon-name
name of icon to use

@end table

Since 2.8

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-source-unset  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Undoes the effects of @code{gtk-drag-source-set}.

@table @var
@item widget
a @code{<gtk-widget>}

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-source-set-target-list  (widget@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) (target_list@tie{}@code{<gtk-target-list*>})
Changes the target types that this widget offers for drag-and-drop. The widget
must first be made into a drag source with @code{gtk-drag-source-set}.

@table @var
@item widget
a @code{<gtk-widget>} that's a drag source

@item target-list
list of draggable targets, or @samp{@code{#f}} for none

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-source-get-target-list  (widget@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-target-list*>})
Gets the list of targets this widget can provide for drag-and-drop.

@table @var
@item widget
a @code{<gtk-widget>}

@item ret
the @code{<gtk-target-list>}, or @samp{@code{#f}} if none

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-source-add-text-targets  (widget@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Add the text targets supported by @code{<gtk-selection>} to the target list of
the drag source. The targets are added with @var{info} = 0. If you need another
value, use @code{gtk-target-list-add-text-targets} and
@code{gtk-drag-source-set-target-list}.

@table @var
@item widget
a @code{<gtk-widget>} that's is a drag source

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-source-add-image-targets  (widget@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Add the writable image targets supported by @code{<gtk-selection>} to the target
list of the drag source. The targets are added with @var{info} = 0. If you need
another value, use @code{gtk-target-list-add-image-targets} and
@code{gtk-drag-source-set-target-list}.

@table @var
@item widget
a @code{<gtk-widget>} that's is a drag source

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-drag-source-add-uri-targets  (widget@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Add the URI targets supported by @code{<gtk-selection>} to the target list of
the drag source. The targets are added with @var{info} = 0. If you need another
value, use @code{gtk-target-list-add-uri-targets} and
@code{gtk-drag-source-set-target-list}.

@table @var
@item widget
a @code{<gtk-widget>} that's is a drag source

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
