
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-combo-box-entry>
Derives from @code{<gtk-combo-box>}.

This class defines the following properties:

@table @code
@item text-column
A column in the data source model to get the strings from

@end table

@end deftp

@deffn Function gtk-combo-box-entry-new  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-combo-box-entry>} which has a @code{<gtk-entry>} as
child. After construction, you should set a model using
@code{gtk-combo-box-set-model} and a text_column * using
@code{gtk-combo-box-entry-set-text-column}.

@table @var
@item ret
A new @code{<gtk-combo-box-entry>}.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-combo-box-entry-new-with-model  (model@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-model>}) (text_column@tie{}@code{int}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-combo-box-entry>} which has a @code{<gtk-entry>} as
child and a list of strings as popup. You can get the @code{<gtk-entry>} from a
@code{<gtk-combo-box-entry>} using GTK_ENTRY (GTK_BIN (combo_box_entry)->child).
To add and remove strings from the list, just modify @var{model} using its data
manipulation API.

@table @var
@item model
A @code{<gtk-tree-model>}.

@item text-column
A column in @var{model} to get the strings from.

@item ret
A new @code{<gtk-combo-box-entry>}.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-combo-box-entry-new-text  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Convenience function which constructs a new editable text combo box, which is a
@code{<gtk-combo-box-entry>} just displaying strings. If you use this function
to create a text combo box, you should only manipulate its data source with the
following convenience functions: @code{gtk-combo-box-append-text},
@code{gtk-combo-box-insert-text}, @code{gtk-combo-box-prepend-text} and
@code{gtk-combo-box-remove-text}.

@table @var
@item ret
A new text @code{<gtk-combo-box-entry>}.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-combo-box-entry-set-text-column  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-combo-box-entry>}) (text_column@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method set-text-column
Sets the model column which @var{entry-box} should use to get strings from to be
@var{text-column}.

@table @var
@item entry-box
A @code{<gtk-combo-box-entry>}.

@item text-column
A column in @var{model} to get the strings from.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-combo-box-entry-get-text-column  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-combo-box-entry>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-text-column
Returns the column which @var{entry-box} is using to get the strings from.

@table @var
@item entry-box
A @code{<gtk-combo-box-entry>}.

@item ret
A column in the data source model of @var{entry-box}.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
