
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-radio-action>
Derives from @code{<gtk-toggle-action>}.

This class defines the following properties:

@table @code
@item value
The value returned by gtk_radio_action_get_current_value() when this action is
the current action of its group.

@item group
The radio action whose group this action belongs to.

@item current-value
The value property of the currently active member of the group to which this
action belongs.

@end table

@end deftp

@defop Signal <gtk-radio-action> changed  (arg0@tie{}@code{<gtk-radio-action>})
The ::changed signal is emitted on every member of a radio group when the active
member is changed. The signal gets emitted after the ::activate signals for the
previous and current active members.

Since 2.4

@end defop

@deffn Function gtk-radio-action-new  (name@tie{}@code{mchars}) (label@tie{}@code{mchars}) (tooltip@tie{}@code{mchars}) (stock_id@tie{}@code{mchars}) (value@tie{}@code{int}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-radio-action>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-radio-action>} object. To add the action to a
@code{<gtk-action-group>} and set the accelerator for the action, call
@code{gtk-action-group-add-action-with-accel}.

@table @var
@item name
A unique name for the action

@item label
The label displayed in menu items and on buttons

@item tooltip
A tooltip for this action

@item stock-id
The stock icon to display in widgets representing this action

@item value
The value which @code{gtk-radio-action-get-current-value} should return if this
action is selected.

@item ret
a new @code{<gtk-radio-action>}

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-radio-action-get-group  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-radio-action>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-radio-group*>})
@deffnx Method get-group
Returns the list representing the radio group for this object. Note that the
returned list is only valid until the next change to the group.

A common way to set up a group of radio group is the following:

@example 

  GSList *group = NULL;
  GtkRadioAction *action;
 
  while (/* more actions to add */)
    @{
       action = gtk_radio_action_new (...);
       
       gtk_radio_action_set_group (action, group);
       group = gtk_radio_action_get_group (action);
    @}
@end example

@table @var
@item action
the action object

@item ret
the list representing the radio group for this object

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-radio-action-set-group  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-radio-action>}) (group@tie{}@code{<gtk-radio-group*>})
@deffnx Method set-group
Sets the radio group for the radio action object.

@table @var
@item action
the action object

@item group
a list representing a radio group

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-radio-action-get-current-value  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-radio-action>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-current-value
Obtains the value property of the currently active member of the group to which
@var{action} belongs.

@table @var
@item action
a @code{<gtk-radio-action>}

@item ret
The value of the currently active group member

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-radio-action-set-current-value  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-radio-action>}) (current_value@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method set-current-value
Sets the currently active group member to the member with value property
@var{current-value}.

@table @var
@item action
a @code{<gtk-radio-action>}

@item current-value
the new value

@end table

Since 2.10

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
