
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-menu>
Derives from @code{<gtk-menu-shell>}.

This class defines the following slots:

@table @code
@item tearoff-state
A boolean that indicates whether the menu is torn-off

@item tearoff-title
A title that may be displayed by the window manager when this menu is torn-off

@end table

@end deftp

@defop Signal <gtk-menu> move-scroll  (arg0@tie{}@code{<gtk-scroll-type>})
@end defop

@deffn Function gtk-menu-new  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-menu>}.

@table @var
@item ret
a new @code{<gtk-menu>}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-menu-set-screen  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-menu>}) (screen@tie{}@code{<gdk-screen>})
@deffnx Method set-screen
Sets the @code{<gdk-screen>} on which the menu will be displayed.

@table @var
@item menu
a @code{<gtk-menu>}.

@item screen
a @code{<gdk-screen>}, or @samp{@code{#f}} if the screen should be determined by
the widget the menu is attached to.

@end table

Since 2.2

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-menu-reorder-child  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-menu>}) (child@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) (position@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method reorder-child
Moves a @code{<gtk-menu-item>} to a new position within the @code{<gtk-menu>}.

@table @var
@item menu
a @code{<gtk-menu>}.

@item child
the @code{<gtk-menu-item>} to move.

@item position
the new position to place @var{child}. Positions are numbered from 0 to n-1.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-menu-attach  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-menu>}) (child@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) (left_attach@tie{}@code{unsigned-int}) (right_attach@tie{}@code{unsigned-int}) (top_attach@tie{}@code{unsigned-int}) (bottom_attach@tie{}@code{unsigned-int})
@deffnx Method attach
Adds a new @code{<gtk-menu-item>} to a (table) menu. The number of 'cells' that
an item will occupy is specified by @var{left-attach}, @var{right-attach},
@var{top-attach} and @var{bottom-attach}. These each represent the leftmost,
rightmost, uppermost and lower column and row numbers of the table. (Columns and
rows are indexed from zero).

Note that this function is not related to @code{gtk-menu-detach}.

@table @var
@item menu
a @code{<gtk-menu>}.

@item child
a @code{<gtk-menu-item>}.

@item left-attach
The column number to attach the left side of the item to.

@item right-attach
The column number to attach the right side of the item to.

@item top-attach
The row number to attach the top of the item to.

@item bottom-attach
The row number to attach the bottom of the item to.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-menu-popup  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-menu>}) (parent_menu_shell@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) (parent_menu_item@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) (menu_position_func@tie{}@code{scm}) (button@tie{}@code{unsigned-int}) (activate_time@tie{}@code{unsigned-int32})
@deffnx Method popup
Displays a menu and makes it available for selection. Applications can use this
function to display context-sensitive menus, and will typically supply
@samp{@code{#f}} for the @var{parent-menu-shell}, @var{parent-menu-item},
@var{func} and @var{data} parameters. The default menu positioning function will
position the menu at the current mouse cursor position.

The @var{button} parameter should be the mouse button pressed to initiate the
menu popup. If the menu popup was initiated by something other than a mouse
button press, such as a mouse button release or a keypress, @var{button} should
be 0.

The @var{activate-time} parameter should be the time stamp of the event that
initiated the popup. If such an event is not available, use
@code{gtk-get-current-event-time} instead.

@table @var
@item menu
a @code{<gtk-menu>}.

@item parent-menu-shell
the menu shell containing the triggering menu item, or @samp{@code{#f}}

@item parent-menu-item
the menu item whose activation triggered the popup, or @samp{@code{#f}}

@item func
a user supplied function used to position the menu, or @samp{@code{#f}}

@item data
user supplied data to be passed to @var{func}.

@item button
the mouse button which was pressed to initiate the event.

@item activate-time
the time at which the activation event occurred.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-menu-set-accel-group  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-menu>}) (accel_group@tie{}@code{<gtk-accel-group>})
@deffnx Method set-accel-group
Set the @code{<gtk-accel-group>} which holds global accelerators for the menu.
This accelerator group needs to also be added to all windows that this menu is
being used in with @code{gtk-window-add-accel-group}, in order for those windows
to support all the accelerators contained in this group.

@table @var
@item menu
a @code{<gtk-menu>}.

@item accel-group
the @code{<gtk-accel-group>} to be associated with the menu.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-menu-get-accel-group  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-menu>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-accel-group>})
@deffnx Method get-accel-group
Gets the @code{<gtk-accel-group>} which holds global accelerators for the menu.
See @code{gtk-menu-set-accel-group}.

@table @var
@item menu
a @code{<gtk-menu>}.

@item ret
the @code{<gtk-accel-group>} associated with the menu.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-menu-set-accel-path  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-menu>}) (accel_path@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method set-accel-path
Sets an accelerator path for this menu from which accelerator paths for its
immediate children, its menu items, can be constructed. The main purpose of this
function is to spare the programmer the inconvenience of having to call
@code{gtk-menu-item-set-accel-path} on each menu item that should support
runtime user changable accelerators. Instead, by just calling
@code{gtk-menu-set-accel-path} on their parent, each menu item of this menu,
that contains a label describing its purpose, automatically gets an accel path
assigned. For example, a menu containing menu items "New" and "Exit", will,
after @samp{gtk_menu_set_accel_path (menu, "<Gnumeric-Sheet>/File");} has been
called, assign its items the accel paths: @samp{"<Gnumeric-Sheet>/File/New"} and
@samp{"<Gnumeric-Sheet>/File/Exit"}. Assigning accel paths to menu items then
enables the user to change their accelerators at runtime. More details about
accelerator paths and their default setups can be found at
@code{gtk-accel-map-add-entry}.

@table @var
@item menu
a valid @code{<gtk-menu>}

@item accel-path
a valid accelerator path

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-menu-set-title  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-menu>}) (title@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method set-title
Sets the title string for the menu. The title is displayed when the menu is
shown as a tearoff menu. If @var{title} is @samp{@code{#f}}, the menu will see
if it is attached to a parent menu item, and if so it will try to use the same
text as that menu item's label.

@table @var
@item menu
a @code{<gtk-menu>}

@item title
a string containing the title for the menu.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-menu-get-tearoff-state  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-menu>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-tearoff-state
Returns whether the menu is torn off. See @code{gtk-menu-set-tearoff-state}.

@table @var
@item menu
a @code{<gtk-menu>}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if the menu is currently torn off.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-menu-get-title  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-menu>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-title
Returns the title of the menu. See @code{gtk-menu-set-title}.

@table @var
@item menu
a @code{<gtk-menu>}

@item ret
the title of the menu, or @samp{@code{#f}} if the menu has no title set on it.
This string is owned by the widget and should not be modified or freed.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-menu-popdown  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-menu>})
@deffnx Method popdown
Removes the menu from the screen.

@table @var
@item menu
a @code{<gtk-menu>}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-menu-reposition  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-menu>})
@deffnx Method reposition
Repositions the menu according to its position function.

@table @var
@item menu
a @code{<gtk-menu>}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-menu-get-active  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-menu>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
@deffnx Method get-active
Returns the selected menu item from the menu. This is used by the
@code{<gtk-option-menu>}.

@table @var
@item menu
a @code{<gtk-menu>}.

@item ret
the @code{<gtk-menu-item>} that was last selected in the menu. If a selection
has not yet been made, the first menu item is selected.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-menu-set-active  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-menu>}) (index@tie{}@code{unsigned-int})
@deffnx Method set-active
Selects the specified menu item within the menu. This is used by the
@code{<gtk-option-menu>} and should not be used by anyone else.

@table @var
@item menu
a @code{<gtk-menu>}.

@item index
the index of the menu item to select. Index values are from 0 to n-1.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-menu-set-tearoff-state  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-menu>}) (torn_off@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-tearoff-state
Changes the tearoff state of the menu. A menu is normally displayed as drop down
menu which persists as long as the menu is active. It can also be displayed as a
tearoff menu which persists until it is closed or reattached.

@table @var
@item menu
a @code{<gtk-menu>}.

@item torn-off
If @samp{@code{#t}}, menu is displayed as a tearoff menu.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-menu-detach  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-menu>})
@deffnx Method detach
Detaches the menu from the widget to which it had been attached. This function
will call the callback function, @var{detacher}, provided when the
@code{gtk-menu-attach-to-widget} function was called.

@table @var
@item menu
a @code{<gtk-menu>}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-menu-get-attach-widget  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-menu>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
@deffnx Method get-attach-widget
Returns the @code{<gtk-widget>} that the menu is attached to.

@table @var
@item menu
a @code{<gtk-menu>}.

@item ret
the @code{<gtk-widget>} that the menu is attached to.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-menu-get-for-attach-widget  (widget@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{glist-of})
Returns a list of the menus which are attached to this widget. This list is
owned by GTK+ and must not be modified.

@table @var
@item widget
a @code{<gtk-widget>}

@item ret
the list of menus attached to his widget.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-menu-set-monitor  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-menu>}) (monitor_num@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method set-monitor
Informs GTK+ on which monitor a menu should be popped up. See
@code{gdk-screen-get-monitor-geometry}.

This function should be called from a @code{<gtk-menu-position-func>} if the
menu should not appear on the same monitor as the pointer. This information
can't be reliably inferred from the coordinates returned by a
@code{<gtk-menu-position-func>}, since, for very long menus, these coordinates
may extend beyond the monitor boundaries or even the screen boundaries.

@table @var
@item menu
a @code{<gtk-menu>}

@item monitor-num
the number of the monitor on which the menu should be popped up

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
