
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-accel-label>
This @code{<gobject>} class defines the following properties:

@table @code
@item accel-closure
The closure to be monitored for accelerator changes@item accel-widget
The widget to be monitored for accelerator changes@end table

@end deftp

@deffn Function gtk-accel-label-new  (string@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-accel-label>}.

@table @var
@item string
the label string. Must be non-@samp{@code{#f}}.

@item ret
a new @code{<gtk-accel-label>}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-accel-label-set-accel-closure  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-accel-label>}) (accel_closure@tie{}@code{<gclosure>})
@deffnx Method set-accel-closure
Sets the closure to be monitored by this accelerator label. The closure must be
connected to an accelerator group; see @code{gtk-accel-group-connect}.

@table @var
@item accel-label
a @code{<gtk-accel-label>}

@item accel-closure
the closure to monitor for accelerator changes.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-accel-label-get-accel-widget  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-accel-label>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
@deffnx Method get-accel-widget
Fetches the widget monitored by this accelerator label. See
@code{gtk-accel-label-set-accel-widget}.

@table @var
@item accel-label
a @code{<gtk-accel-label>}

@item ret
the object monitored by the accelerator label, or @samp{@code{#f}}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-accel-label-set-accel-widget  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-accel-label>}) (accel_widget@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
@deffnx Method set-accel-widget
Sets the widget to be monitored by this accelerator label.

@table @var
@item accel-label
a @code{<gtk-accel-label>}

@item accel-widget
the widget to be monitored.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-accel-label-get-accel-width  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-accel-label>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{unsigned-int})
@deffnx Method get-accel-width
Returns the width needed to display the accelerator key(s). This is used by
menus to align all of the @code{<gtk-menu-item>} widgets, and shouldn't be
needed by applications.

@table @var
@item accel-label
a @code{<gtk-accel-label>}.

@item ret
the width needed to display the accelerator key(s).

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-accel-label-refetch  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-accel-label>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method refetch
Recreates the string representing the accelerator keys. This should not be
needed since the string is automatically updated whenever accelerators are added
or removed from the associated widget.

@table @var
@item accel-label
a @code{<gtk-accel-label>}.

@item ret
always returns @samp{@code{#f}}.

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
