
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-statusbar>
This @code{<gobject>} class defines the following properties:

@table @code
@item has-resize-grip
Whether the statusbar has a grip for resizing the toplevel@end table

@end deftp

@defop Signal <gtk-statusbar> text-pushed  (arg0@tie{}@code{<guint>}) (arg1@tie{}@code{<gchararray>})
Is emitted whenever a new message gets pushed onto a statusbar's stack.

@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-statusbar> text-popped  (arg0@tie{}@code{<guint>}) (arg1@tie{}@code{<gchararray>})
Is emitted whenever a new message is popped off a statusbar's stack.

@end defop

@deffn Function gtk-statusbar-new  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-statusbar>} ready for messages.

@table @var
@item ret
the new @code{<gtk-statusbar>}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-statusbar-get-context-id  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-statusbar>}) (context_description@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{unsigned-int})
@deffnx Method get-context-id
Returns a new context identifier, given a description of the actual context.

@table @var
@item statusbar
a @code{<gtk-statusbar>}.

@item context-description
textual description of what context the new message is being used in.

@item ret
an integer id.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-statusbar-push  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-statusbar>}) (context_id@tie{}@code{unsigned-int}) (text@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{unsigned-int})
@deffnx Method push
Pushes a new message onto a statusbar's stack.

@table @var
@item statusbar
a @code{<gtk-statusbar>}.

@item context-id
the message's context id, as returned by @code{gtk-statusbar-get-context-id}.

@item text
the message to add to the statusbar.

@item ret
the message's new message id for use with @code{gtk-statusbar-remove}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-statusbar-pop  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-statusbar>}) (context_id@tie{}@code{unsigned-int})
@deffnx Method pop
Removes the message at the top of a @code{<gtk-status-bar>}'s stack.

@table @var
@item statusbar
a @code{<gtk-status-bar>}.

@item context-id
a context identifier.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-statusbar-remove  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-statusbar>}) (context_id@tie{}@code{unsigned-int}) (message_id@tie{}@code{unsigned-int})
@deffnx Method remove
Forces the removal of a message from a statusbar's stack. The exact
@var{context-id} and @var{message-id} must be specified.

@table @var
@item statusbar
a @code{<gtk-status-bar>}.

@item context-id
a context identifier.

@item message-id
a message identifier, as returned by @code{gtk-statusbar-push}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-statusbar-set-has-resize-grip  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-statusbar>}) (setting@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-has-resize-grip
Sets whether the statusbar has a resize grip. @samp{@code{#t}} by default.

@table @var
@item statusbar
a @code{<gtk-status-bar>}.

@item setting
@samp{@code{#t}} to have a resize grip.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-statusbar-get-has-resize-grip  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-statusbar>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-has-resize-grip
Returns whether the statusbar has a resize grip.

@table @var
@item statusbar
a @code{<gtk-status-bar>}.

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if the statusbar has a resize grip.

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
