
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-button-box>
Derives from @code{<gtk-box>}.

This class defines the following properties:

@table @code
@item layout-style
How to layout the buttons in the box. Possible values are default, spread, edge,
start and end

@end table

@end deftp

@deffn Function gtk-button-box-get-layout  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-button-box>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-button-box-style>})
@deffnx Method get-layout
Retrieves the method being used to arrange the buttons in a button box.

@table @var
@item widget
a @code{<gtk-button-box>}.

@item ret
the method used to layout buttons in @var{widget}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-button-box-get-child-secondary  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-button-box>}) (child@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-child-secondary
Returns whether @var{child} should appear in a secondary group of children.

@table @var
@item widget
a @code{<gtk-button-box>}

@item child
a child of @var{widget}

@item ret
whether @var{child} should appear in a secondary group of children.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-button-box-set-layout  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-button-box>}) (layout_style@tie{}@code{<gtk-button-box-style>})
@deffnx Method set-layout
Changes the way buttons are arranged in their container.

@table @var
@item widget
a @code{<gtk-button-box>}.

@item layout-style
the new layout style.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-button-box-set-child-secondary  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-button-box>}) (child@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) (is_secondary@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-child-secondary
Sets whether @var{child} should appear in a secondary group of children. A
typical use of a secondary child is the help button in a dialog.

This group appears after the other children if the style is
@samp{GTK_BUTTONBOX_START}, @samp{GTK_BUTTONBOX_SPREAD} or
@samp{GTK_BUTTONBOX_EDGE}, and before the other children if the style is
@samp{GTK_BUTTONBOX_END}. For horizontal button boxes, the definition of
before/after depends on direction of the widget (see
@code{gtk-widget-set-direction}). If the style is @samp{GTK_BUTTONBOX_START} or
@samp{GTK_BUTTONBOX_END}, then the secondary children are aligned at the other
end of the button box from the main children. For the other styles, they appear
immediately next to the main children.

@table @var
@item widget
a @code{<gtk-button-box>}

@item child
a child of @var{widget}

@item is-secondary
if @samp{@code{#t}}, the @var{child} appears in a secondary group of the button
box.

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
