
@c %start of fragment

@deffn Function gtk-list-item-new  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
@samp{gtk_list_item_new} is deprecated and should not be used in newly-written
code.

Creates a new @code{<gtk-listitem>}.

@table @var
@item ret
a new @code{<gtk-list-item>}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-list-item-new-with-label  (label@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
@samp{gtk_list_item_new_with_label} is deprecated and should not be used in
newly-written code.

Creates a new @code{<gtk-list-item>} with a child label containing the given
string.

@table @var
@item label
the string to use for the child label.

@item ret
a new @code{<gtk-list-item>} with a child @code{<gtk-label>} with the text set
to @var{label}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-list-item-select  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-list-item*>})
@samp{gtk_list_item_select} is deprecated and should not be used in
newly-written code.

Selects the item, by emitting the item's "select" signal. Depending on the
selection mode of the list, this may cause other items to be deselected.

@table @var
@item list-item
a @code{<gtk-list-item>}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-list-item-deselect  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-list-item*>})
@samp{gtk_list_item_deselect} is deprecated and should not be used in
newly-written code.

Deselects the item, by emitting the item's "deselect" signal.

@table @var
@item list-item
a @code{<gtk-list-item>}.

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
