
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-curve>
Derives from @code{<gtk-drawing-area>}.

This class defines the following slots:

@table @code
@item curve-type
Is this curve linear, spline interpolated, or free-form

@item min-x
Minimum possible value for X

@item max-x
Maximum possible X value

@item min-y
Minimum possible value for Y

@item max-y
Maximum possible value for Y

@end table

@end deftp

@defop Signal <gtk-curve> curve-type-changed 
Emitted when the curve type has been changed. The curve type can be changed
explicitly with a call to @code{gtk-curve-set-curve-type}. It is also changed as
a side-effect of calling @code{gtk-curve-reset} or @code{gtk-curve-set-gamma}.

@end defop

@deffn Function gtk-curve-new  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-curve>}.

@table @var
@item ret
a new @code{<gtk-curve>}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-curve-reset  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-curve>})
@deffnx Method reset
Resets the curve to a straight line from the minimum x and y values to the
maximum x and y values (i.e. from the bottom-left to the top-right corners). The
curve type is not changed.

@table @var
@item curve
a @code{<gtk-curve>}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-curve-set-gamma  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-curve>}) (gamma@tie{}@code{float})
@deffnx Method set-gamma
Recomputes the entire curve using the given gamma value. A gamma value of 1
results in a straight line. Values greater than 1 result in a curve above the
straight line. Values less than 1 result in a curve below the straight line. The
curve type is changed to @samp{GTK_CURVE_TYPE_FREE}. FIXME: Needs a more precise
definition of gamma.

@table @var
@item curve
a @code{<gtk-curve>}.

@item gamma
the gamma value.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-curve-set-range  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-curve>}) (min_x@tie{}@code{float}) (max_x@tie{}@code{float}) (min_y@tie{}@code{float}) (max_y@tie{}@code{float})
@deffnx Method set-range
Sets the minimum and maximum x and y values of the curve. The curve is also
reset with a call to @code{gtk-curve-reset}.

@table @var
@item curve
a @code{<gtk-curve>}.

@item min-x
the minimum x value.

@item max-x
the maximum x value.

@item min-y
the minimum y value.

@item max-y
the maximum y value.

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
