
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-radio-button>
This @code{<gobject>} class defines the following properties:

@table @code
@item group
The radio button whose group this widget belongs to.@end table

@end deftp

@defop Signal <gtk-radio-button> group-changed 
Emitted when the group of radio buttons that a radio button belongs to changes.
This is emitted when a radio button switches from being alone to being part of a
group of 2 or more buttons, or vice-versa, and when a buttton is moved from one
group of 2 or more buttons to a different one, but not when the composition of
the group that a button belongs to changes.

Since 2.4

@end defop

@deffn Function gtk-radio-button-new  (group@tie{}@code{<gtk-radio-group*>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-radio-button>}. To be of any practical value, a widget
should then be packed into the radio button.

@table @var
@item group
an existing radio button group, or @samp{@code{#f}} if you are creating a new
group.

@item ret
a new radio button.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-radio-button-new-from-widget  (group@tie{}@code{<gtk-radio-button>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-radio-button>}, adding it to the same group as
@var{group}. As with @code{gtk-radio-button-new}, a widget should be packed into
the radio button.

@table @var
@item group
an existing @code{<gtk-radio-button>}.

@item ret
a new radio button.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-radio-button-new-with-label  (group@tie{}@code{<gtk-radio-group*>}) (label@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-radio-button>} with a text label.

@table @var
@item group
an existing radio button group, or @samp{@code{#f}} if you are creating a new
group.

@item label
the text label to display next to the radio button.

@item ret
a new radio button.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-radio-button-new-with-mnemonic  (group@tie{}@code{<gtk-radio-group*>}) (label@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-radio-button>} containing a label, adding it to the
same group as @var{group}. The label will be created using
@code{gtk-label-new-with-mnemonic}, so underscores in @var{label} indicate the
mnemonic for the button.

@table @var
@item group
the radio button group

@item label
the text of the button, with an underscore in front of the mnemonic character

@item ret
a new @code{<gtk-radio-button>}

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-radio-button-set-group  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-radio-button>}) (group@tie{}@code{<gtk-radio-group*>})
@deffnx Method set-group
Sets a @code{<gtk-radio-button>}'s group. It should be noted that this does not
change the layout of your interface in any way, so if you are changing the
group, it is likely you will need to re-arrange the user interface to reflect
these changes.

@table @var
@item radio-button
a @code{<gtk-radio-button>}.

@item group
an existing radio button group, such as one returned from
@code{gtk-radio-button-get-group}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-radio-button-get-group  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-radio-button>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-radio-group*>})
@deffnx Method get-group
Retrieves the group assigned to a radio button.

@table @var
@item radio-button
a @code{<gtk-radio-button>}.

@item ret
a linked list containing all the radio buttons in the same group as
@var{radio-button}.

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
