
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-adjustment>
Derives from @code{<gtk-object>}.

This class defines the following slots:

@table @code
@item value
The value of the adjustment

@item lower
The minimum value of the adjustment

@item upper
The maximum value of the adjustment

@item step-increment
The step increment of the adjustment

@item page-increment
The page increment of the adjustment

@item page-size
The page size of the adjustment

@end table

@end deftp

@defop Signal <gtk-adjustment> changed 
Emitted when one or more of the @code{<gtk-adjustment>} fields have been
changed, other than the value field.

@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-adjustment> value-changed 
Emitted when the @code{<gtk-adjustment>} value field has been changed.

@end defop

@deffn Function gtk-adjustment-new  (value@tie{}@code{double}) (lower@tie{}@code{double}) (upper@tie{}@code{double}) (step_increment@tie{}@code{double}) (page_increment@tie{}@code{double}) (page_size@tie{}@code{double}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-object>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-adjustment>}.

@table @var
@item value
the initial value.

@item lower
the minimum value.

@item upper
the maximum value.

@item step-increment
the step increment.

@item page-increment
the page increment.

@item page-size
the page size.

@item ret
a new @code{<gtk-adjustment>}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-adjustment-get-value  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-adjustment>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{double})
@deffnx Method get-value
Gets the current value of the adjustment. See @code{gtk-adjustment-set-value}.

@table @var
@item adjustment
a @code{<gtk-adjustment>}

@item ret
The current value of the adjustment.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-adjustment-set-value  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-adjustment>}) (value@tie{}@code{double})
@deffnx Method set-value
Sets the @code{<gtk-adjustment>} value. The value is clamped to lie between
@samp{adjustment->lower} and @samp{adjustment->upper}.

Note that for adjustments which are used in a @code{<gtk-scrollbar>}, the
effective range of allowed values goes from @samp{adjustment->lower} to
@samp{adjustment->upper - adjustment->page_size}.

@table @var
@item adjustment
a @code{<gtk-adjustment>}.

@item value
the new value.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-adjustment-clamp-page  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-adjustment>}) (lower@tie{}@code{double}) (upper@tie{}@code{double})
@deffnx Method clamp-page
Updates the @code{<gtk-adjustment>}@var{value} to ensure that the range between
@var{lower} and @var{upper} is in the current page (i.e. between @var{value} and
@var{value} + @var{page-size}). If the range is larger than the page size, then
only the start of it will be in the current page. A "changed" signal will be
emitted if the value is changed.

@table @var
@item adjustment
a @code{<gtk-adjustment>}.

@item lower
the lower value.

@item upper
the upper value.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-adjustment-changed  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-adjustment>})
@deffnx Method changed
Emits a "changed" signal from the @code{<gtk-adjustment>}. This is typically
called by the owner of the @code{<gtk-adjustment>} after it has changed any of
the @code{<gtk-adjustment>} fields other than the value.

@table @var
@item adjustment
a @code{<gtk-adjustment>}

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-adjustment-value-changed  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-adjustment>})
@deffnx Method value-changed
Emits a "value_changed" signal from the @code{<gtk-adjustment>}. This is
typically called by the owner of the @code{<gtk-adjustment>} after it has
changed the @code{<gtk-adjustment>} value field.

@table @var
@item adjustment
a @code{<gtk-adjustment>}

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
