
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-viewport>
This @code{<gobject>} class defines the following properties:

@table @code
@item hadjustment
The GtkAdjustment that determines the values of the horizontal position for this viewport@item vadjustment
The GtkAdjustment that determines the values of the vertical position for this viewport@item shadow-type
Determines how the shadowed box around the viewport is drawn@end table

@end deftp

@defop Signal <gtk-viewport> set-scroll-adjustments  (arg0@tie{}@code{<gtk-adjustment>}) (arg1@tie{}@code{<gtk-adjustment>})
@end defop

@deffn Function gtk-viewport-new  (hadjustment@tie{}@code{<gtk-adjustment>}) (vadjustment@tie{}@code{<gtk-adjustment>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-viewport>} with the given adjustments.

@table @var
@item hadjustment
horizontal adjustment.

@item vadjustment
vertical adjustment.

@item ret
a new @code{<gtk-viewport>}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-viewport-get-hadjustment  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-viewport>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-adjustment>})
@deffnx Method get-hadjustment
Returns the horizontal adjustment of the viewport.

@table @var
@item viewport
a @code{<gtk-viewport>}.

@item ret
the horizontal adjustment of @var{viewport}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-viewport-get-vadjustment  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-viewport>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-adjustment>})
@deffnx Method get-vadjustment
Returns the vertical adjustment of the viewport.

@table @var
@item viewport
a @code{<gtk-viewport>}.

@item ret
the vertical adjustment of @var{viewport}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-viewport-set-hadjustment  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-viewport>}) (adjustment@tie{}@code{<gtk-adjustment>})
@deffnx Method set-hadjustment
Sets the horizontal adjustment of the viewport.

@table @var
@item viewport
a @code{<gtk-viewport>}.

@item adjustment
a @code{<gtk-adjustment>}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-viewport-set-vadjustment  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-viewport>}) (adjustment@tie{}@code{<gtk-adjustment>})
@deffnx Method set-vadjustment
Sets the vertical adjustment of the viewport.

@table @var
@item viewport
a @code{<gtk-viewport>}.

@item adjustment
a @code{<gtk-adjustment>}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-viewport-set-shadow-type  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-viewport>}) (type@tie{}@code{<gtk-shadow-type>})
@deffnx Method set-shadow-type
Sets the shadow type of the viewport.

@table @var
@item viewport
a @code{<gtk-viewport>}.

@item type
the new shadow type.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-viewport-get-shadow-type  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-viewport>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-shadow-type>})
@deffnx Method get-shadow-type
Gets the shadow type of the @code{<gtk-viewport>}. See
@code{gtk-viewport-set-shadow-type}.

@table @var
@item viewport
a @code{<gtk-viewport>}

@item ret
the shadow type

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
