
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-handle-box>
This @code{<gobject>} class defines the following properties:

@table @code
@item shadow
Deprecated property, use shadow_type instead@item shadow-type
Appearance of the shadow that surrounds the container@item handle-position
Position of the handle relative to the child widget@item snap-edge
Side of the handlebox that's lined up with the docking point to dock the handlebox@item snap-edge-set
Whether to use the value from the snap_edge property or a value derived from handle_position@end table

@end deftp

@defop Signal <gtk-handle-box> child-attached  (arg0@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
This signal is emitted when the contents of the handlebox are reattached to the
main window.

@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-handle-box> child-detached  (arg0@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
This signal is emitted when the contents of the handlebox are detached from the
main window.

@end defop

@deffn Function gtk-handle-box-new  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Create a new handle box.

@table @var
@item ret
a new @code{<gtk-handle-box>}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-handle-box-set-shadow-type  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-handle-box>}) (type@tie{}@code{<gtk-shadow-type>})
@deffnx Method set-shadow-type
Sets the type of shadow to be drawn around the border of the handle box.

@table @var
@item handle-box
a @code{<gtk-handle-box>}

@item type
the shadow type.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-handle-box-set-handle-position  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-handle-box>}) (position@tie{}@code{<gtk-position-type>})
@deffnx Method set-handle-position
Sets the side of the handlebox where the handle is drawn.

@table @var
@item handle-box
a @code{<gtk-handle-box>}

@item position
the side of the handlebox where the handle should be drawn.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-handle-box-set-snap-edge  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-handle-box>}) (edge@tie{}@code{<gtk-position-type>})
@deffnx Method set-snap-edge
Sets the snap edge of a handlebox. The snap edge is the edge of the detached
child that must be aligned with the corresponding edge of the "ghost" left
behind when the child was detached to reattach the torn-off window. Usually, the
snap edge should be chosen so that it stays in the same place on the screen when
the handlebox is torn off.

If the snap edge is not set, then an appropriate value will be guessed from the
handle position. If the handle position is @samp{GTK_POS_RIGHT} or
@samp{GTK_POS_LEFT}, then the snap edge will be @samp{GTK_POS_TOP}, otherwise it
will be @samp{GTK_POS_LEFT}.

@table @var
@item handle-box
a @code{<gtk-handle-box>}

@item edge
the snap edge, or -1 to unset the value; in which case GTK+ will try to guess an
appropriate value in the future.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-handle-box-get-handle-position  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-handle-box>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-position-type>})
@deffnx Method get-handle-position
Gets the handle position of the handle box. See
@code{gtk-handle-box-set-handle-position}.

@table @var
@item handle-box
a @code{<gtk-handle-box>}

@item ret
the current handle position.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-handle-box-get-shadow-type  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-handle-box>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-shadow-type>})
@deffnx Method get-shadow-type
Gets the type of shadow drawn around the handle box. See
@code{gtk-handle-box-set-shadow-type}.

@table @var
@item handle-box
a @code{<gtk-handle-box>}

@item ret
the type of shadow currently drawn around the handle box.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-handle-box-get-snap-edge  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-handle-box>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-position-type>})
@deffnx Method get-snap-edge
Gets the edge used for determining reattachment of the handle box. See
@code{gtk-handle-box-set-snap-edge}.

@table @var
@item handle-box
a @code{<gtk-handle-box>}

@item ret
the edge used for determining reattachment, or (GtkPositionType)-1 if this is
determined (as per default) from the handle position.

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
