
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-menu-shell>
This @code{<gobject>} class defines the following properties:

@table @code
@item take-focus
A boolean that determines whether the menu grabs the keyboard focus@end table

@end deftp

@defop Signal <gtk-menu-shell> cancel 
An action signal which cancels the selection within the menu shell. Causes the
GtkMenuShell::selection-done signal to be emitted.

@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-menu-shell> deactivate 
This signal is emitted when a menu shell is deactivated.

@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-menu-shell> selection-done 
This signal is emitted when a selection has been completed within a menu shell.

@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-menu-shell> move-current  (arg0@tie{}@code{<gtk-menu-direction-type>})
An action signal which moves the current menu item in the direction specified by
@var{direction}.

@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-menu-shell> activate-current  (arg0@tie{}@code{<gboolean>})
An action signal that activates the current menu item within the menu shell.

@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-menu-shell> cycle-focus  (arg0@tie{}@code{<gtk-direction-type>})
@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-menu-shell> move-selected  (arg0@tie{}@code{<gint>}) @result{}@tie{}@code{<gboolean>}
undocumented
@end defop

@deffn Function gtk-menu-shell-append  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-menu-shell>}) (child@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
@deffnx Method append
Adds a new @code{<gtk-menu-item>} to the end of the menu shell's item list.

@table @var
@item menu-shell
a @code{<gtk-menu-shell>}.

@item child
The @code{<gtk-menu-item>} to add.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-menu-shell-prepend  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-menu-shell>}) (child@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
@deffnx Method prepend
Adds a new @code{<gtk-menu-item>} to the beginning of the menu shell's item
list.

@table @var
@item menu-shell
a @code{<gtk-menu-shell>}.

@item child
The @code{<gtk-menu-item>} to add.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-menu-shell-insert  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-menu-shell>}) (child@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) (position@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method insert
Adds a new @code{<gtk-menu-item>} to the menu shell's item list at the position
indicated by @var{position}.

@table @var
@item menu-shell
a @code{<gtk-menu-shell>}.

@item child
The @code{<gtk-menu-item>} to add.

@item position
The position in the item list where @var{child} is added. Positions are numbered
from 0 to n-1.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-menu-shell-deactivate  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-menu-shell>})
@deffnx Method deactivate
Deactivates the menu shell. Typically this results in the menu shell being
erased from the screen.

@table @var
@item menu-shell
a @code{<gtk-menu-shell>}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-menu-shell-select-item  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-menu-shell>}) (menu_item@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
@deffnx Method select-item
Selects the menu item from the menu shell.

@table @var
@item menu-shell
a @code{<gtk-menu-shell>}.

@item menu-item
The @code{<gtk-menu-item>} to select.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-menu-shell-select-first  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-menu-shell>}) (search_sensitive@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method select-first
Select the first visible or selectable child of the menu shell; don't select
tearoff items unless the only item is a tearoff item.

@table @var
@item menu-shell
a @code{<gtk-menu-shell>}

@item search-sensitive
if @samp{@code{#t}}, search for the first selectable menu item, otherwise select
nothing if the first item isn't sensitive. This should be @samp{@code{#f}} if
the menu is being popped up initially.

@end table

Since 2.2

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-menu-shell-deselect  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-menu-shell>})
@deffnx Method deselect
Deselects the currently selected item from the menu shell, if any.

@table @var
@item menu-shell
a @code{<gtk-menu-shell>}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-menu-shell-activate-item  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-menu-shell>}) (menu_item@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) (force_deactivate@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method activate-item
Activates the menu item within the menu shell.

@table @var
@item menu-shell
a @code{<gtk-menu-shell>}.

@item menu-item
The @code{<gtk-menu-item>} to activate.

@item force-deactivate
If TRUE, force the deactivation of the menu shell after the menu item is
activated.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-menu-shell-cancel  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-menu-shell>})
@deffnx Method cancel
Cancels the selection within the menu shell.

@table @var
@item menu-shell
a @code{<gtk-menu-shell>}

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-menu-shell-set-take-focus  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-menu-shell>}) (take_focus@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-take-focus
If @var{take-focus} is @samp{@code{#t}} (the default) the menu shell will take
the keyboard focus so that it will receive all keyboard events which is needed
to enable keyboard navigation in menus.

Setting @var{take-focus} to @samp{@code{#f}} is useful only for special
applications like virtual keyboard implementations which should not take
keyboard focus.

The @var{take-focus} state of a menu or menu bar is automatically propagated to
submenus whenever a submenu is popped up, so you don't have to worry about
recursively setting it for your entire menu hierarchy. Only when
programmatically picking a submenu and popping it up manually, the
@var{take-focus} property of the submenu needs to be set explicitely.

Note that setting it to @samp{@code{#f}} has side-effects:

If the focus is in some other app, it keeps the focus and keynav in the menu
doesn't work. Consequently, keynav on the menu will only work if the focus is on
some toplevel owned by the onscreen keyboard.

To avoid confusing the user, menus with @var{take-focus} set to @samp{@code{#f}}
should not display mnemonics or accelerators, since it cannot be guaranteed that
they will work.

See also @code{gdk-keyboard-grab}

@table @var
@item menu-shell
a @code{<gtk-menu-shell>}

@item take-focus
@samp{@code{#t}} if the menu shell should take the keyboard focus on popup.

@end table

Since 2.8

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-menu-shell-get-take-focus  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-menu-shell>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-take-focus
Returns @samp{@code{#t}} if the menu shell will take the keyboard focus on
popup.

@table @var
@item menu-shell
a @code{<gtk-menu-shell>}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if the menu shell will take the keyboard focus on popup.

@end table

Since 2.8

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
