
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-about-dialog>
This @code{<gobject>} class defines the following properties:

@table @code
@item program-name
The name of the program. If this is not set, it defaults to g_get_application_name()@item version
The version of the program@item copyright
Copyright information for the program@item comments
Comments about the program@item website
The URL for the link to the website of the program@item website-label
The label for the link to the website of the program. If this is not set, it defaults to the URL@item license
The license of the program@item authors
List of authors of the program@item documenters
List of people documenting the program@item translator-credits
Credits to the translators. This string should be marked as translatable@item artists
List of people who have contributed artwork to the program@item logo
A logo for the about box. If this is not set, it defaults to gtk_window_get_default_icon_list()@item logo-icon-name
A named icon to use as the logo for the about box.@item wrap-license
Whether to wrap the license text.@end table

@end deftp

@deffn Function gtk-about-dialog-new  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-about-dialog>}.

@table @var
@item ret
a newly created @code{<gtk-about-dialog>}

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-about-dialog-get-name  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-about-dialog>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-name
Returns the program name displayed in the about dialog.

@table @var
@item about
a @code{<gtk-about-dialog>}

@item ret
The program name. The string is owned by the about dialog and must not be
modified.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-about-dialog-set-name  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-about-dialog>}) (name@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method set-name
Sets the name to display in the about dialog. If this is not set, it defaults to
@code{g-get-application-name}.

@table @var
@item about
a @code{<gtk-about-dialog>}

@item name
the program name

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-about-dialog-get-version  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-about-dialog>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-version
Returns the version string.

@table @var
@item about
a @code{<gtk-about-dialog>}

@item ret
The version string. The string is owned by the about dialog and must not be
modified.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-about-dialog-set-version  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-about-dialog>}) (version@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method set-version
Sets the version string to display in the about dialog.

@table @var
@item about
a @code{<gtk-about-dialog>}

@item version
the version string

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-about-dialog-get-copyright  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-about-dialog>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-copyright
Returns the copyright string.

@table @var
@item about
a @code{<gtk-about-dialog>}

@item ret
The copyright string. The string is owned by the about dialog and must not be
modified.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-about-dialog-set-copyright  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-about-dialog>}) (copyright@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method set-copyright
Sets the copyright string to display in the about dialog. This should be a short
string of one or two lines.

@table @var
@item about
a @code{<gtk-about-dialog>}

@item copyright
the copyright string

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-about-dialog-get-license  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-about-dialog>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-license
Returns the license information.

@table @var
@item about
a @code{<gtk-about-dialog>}

@item ret
The license information. The string is owned by the about dialog and must not be
modified.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-about-dialog-set-license  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-about-dialog>}) (license@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method set-license
Sets the license information to be displayed in the secondary license dialog. If
@var{license} is @samp{@code{#f}}, the license button is hidden.

@table @var
@item about
a @code{<gtk-about-dialog>}

@item license
the license information or @samp{@code{#f}}

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-about-dialog-get-wrap-license  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-about-dialog>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-wrap-license
Returns whether the license text in @var{about} is automatically wrapped.

@table @var
@item about
a @code{<gtk-about-dialog>}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if the license text is wrapped

@end table

Since 2.8

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-about-dialog-set-wrap-license  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-about-dialog>}) (wrap_license@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-wrap-license
Sets whether the license text in @var{about} is automatically wrapped.

@table @var
@item about
a @code{<gtk-about-dialog>}

@item wrap-license
whether to wrap the license

@end table

Since 2.8

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-about-dialog-get-website  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-about-dialog>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-website
Returns the website URL.

@table @var
@item about
a @code{<gtk-about-dialog>}

@item ret
The website URL. The string is owned by the about dialog and must not be
modified.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-about-dialog-set-website  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-about-dialog>}) (website@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method set-website
Sets the URL to use for the website link.

@table @var
@item about
a @code{<gtk-about-dialog>}

@item website
a URL string starting with "http://"

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-about-dialog-get-website-label  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-about-dialog>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-website-label
Returns the label used for the website link.

@table @var
@item about
a @code{<gtk-about-dialog>}

@item ret
The label used for the website link. The string is owned by the about dialog and
must not be modified.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-about-dialog-set-website-label  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-about-dialog>}) (website_label@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method set-website-label
Sets the label to be used for the website link. It defaults to the website URL.

@table @var
@item about
a @code{<gtk-about-dialog>}

@item website-label
the label used for the website link

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-about-dialog-get-logo  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-about-dialog>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gdk-pixbuf>})
@deffnx Method get-logo
Returns the pixbuf displayed as logo in the about dialog.

@table @var
@item about
a @code{<gtk-about-dialog>}

@item ret
the pixbuf displayed as logo. The pixbuf is owned by the about dialog. If you
want to keep a reference to it, you have to call @code{g-object-ref} on it.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-about-dialog-set-logo  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-about-dialog>}) (logo@tie{}@code{<gdk-pixbuf>})
@deffnx Method set-logo
Sets the pixbuf to be displayed as logo in the about dialog. If it is
@samp{@code{#f}}, the default window icon set with
@code{gtk-window-set-default-icon} will be used.

@table @var
@item about
a @code{<gtk-about-dialog>}

@item logo
a @code{<gdk-pixbuf>}, or @samp{@code{#f}}

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-about-dialog-get-logo-icon-name  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-about-dialog>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-logo-icon-name
Returns the icon name displayed as logo in the about dialog.

@table @var
@item about
a @code{<gtk-about-dialog>}

@item ret
the icon name displayed as logo. The string is owned by the dialog. If you want
to keep a reference to it, you have to call @code{g-strdup} on it.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-about-dialog-set-logo-icon-name  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-about-dialog>}) (icon_name@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method set-logo-icon-name
Sets the pixbuf to be displayed as logo in the about dialog. If it is
@samp{@code{#f}}, the default window icon set with
@code{gtk-window-set-default-icon} will be used.

@table @var
@item about
a @code{<gtk-about-dialog>}

@item icon-name
an icon name, or @samp{@code{#f}}

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
