
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-toolbar>
Derives from @code{<gtk-container>}.

This class defines the following slots:

@table @code
@item orientation
The orientation of the toolbar

@item toolbar-style
How to draw the toolbar

@item show-arrow
If an arrow should be shown if the toolbar doesn't fit

@item tooltips
If the tooltips of the toolbar should be active or not

@item icon-size
Size of icons in this toolbar

@item icon-size-set
Whether the icon-size property has been set

@end table

@end deftp

@defop Signal <gtk-toolbar> orientation-changed  (arg0@tie{}@code{<gtk-orientation>})
Emitted when the orientation of the toolbar changes.

@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-toolbar> style-changed  (arg0@tie{}@code{<gtk-toolbar-style>})
Emitted when the style of the toolbar changes.

@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-toolbar> popup-context-menu  (arg0@tie{}@code{<gint>}) (arg1@tie{}@code{<gint>}) (arg2@tie{}@code{<gint>}) @result{}@tie{}@code{<gboolean>}
Emitted when the user right-clicks the toolbar or uses the keybinding to display
a popup menu.

Application developers should handle this signal if they want to display a
context menu on the toolbar. The context-menu should appear at the coordinates
given by @var{x} and @var{y}. The mouse button number is given by the
@var{button} parameter. If the menu was popped up using the keybaord,
@var{button} is -1.

@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-toolbar> focus-home-or-end  (arg0@tie{}@code{<gboolean>}) @result{}@tie{}@code{<gboolean>}
A keybinding signal used internally by GTK+. This signal can't be used in
application code

@end defop

@deffn Function gtk-toolbar-new  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new toolbar.

@table @var
@item ret
the newly-created toolbar.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-toolbar-insert  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-toolbar>}) (item@tie{}@code{<gtk-tool-item>}) (pos@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method insert
Insert a @code{<gtk-tool-item>} into the toolbar at position @var{pos}. If
@var{pos} is 0 the item is prepended to the start of the toolbar. If @var{pos}
is negative, the item is appended to the end of the toolbar.

@table @var
@item toolbar
a @code{<gtk-toolbar>}

@item item
a @code{<gtk-tool-item>}

@item pos
the position of the new item

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-toolbar-get-item-index  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-toolbar>}) (item@tie{}@code{<gtk-tool-item>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-item-index
Returns the position of @var{item} on the toolbar, starting from 0. It is an
error if @var{item} is not a child of the toolbar.

@table @var
@item toolbar
a @code{<gtk-toolbar>}

@item item
a @code{<gtk-tool-item>} that is a child of @var{toolbar}

@item ret
the position of item on the toolbar.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-toolbar-get-n-items  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-toolbar>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-n-items
Returns the number of items on the toolbar.

@table @var
@item toolbar
a @code{<gtk-toolbar>}

@item ret
the number of items on the toolbar

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-toolbar-get-nth-item  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-toolbar>}) (n@tie{}@code{int}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-tool-item>})
@deffnx Method get-nth-item
Returns the @var{n}'th item on @var{toolbar}, or @samp{@code{#f}} if the toolbar
does not contain an @var{n}'th item.

@table @var
@item toolbar
a @code{<gtk-toolbar>}

@item n
A position on the toolbar

@item ret
The @var{n}'th @code{<gtk-tool-item>} on @var{toolbar}, or @samp{@code{#f}} if
there isn't an @var{n}'th item.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-toolbar-get-drop-index  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-toolbar>}) (x@tie{}@code{int}) (y@tie{}@code{int}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-drop-index
Returns the position corresponding to the indicated point on @var{toolbar}. This
is useful when dragging items to the toolbar: this function returns the position
a new item should be inserted.

@var{x} and @var{y} are in @var{toolbar} coordinates.

@table @var
@item toolbar
a @code{<gtk-toolbar>}

@item x
x coordinate of a point on the toolbar

@item y
y coordinate of a point on the toolbar

@item ret
The position corresponding to the point (@var{x}, @var{y}) on the toolbar.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-toolbar-set-drop-highlight-item  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-toolbar>}) (tool_item@tie{}@code{<gtk-tool-item>}) (index_@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method set-drop-highlight-item
Highlights @var{toolbar} to give an idea of what it would look like if
@var{item} was added to @var{toolbar} at the position indicated by @var{index}.
If @var{item} is @samp{@code{#f}}, highlighting is turned off. In that case
@var{index} is ignored.

The @var{tool-item} passed to this function must not be part of any widget
hierarchy. When an item is set as drop highlight item it can not added to any
widget hierarchy or used as highlight item for another toolbar.

@table @var
@item toolbar
a @code{<gtk-toolbar>}

@item tool-item
a @code{<gtk-tool-item>}, or @samp{@code{#f}} to turn of highlighting

@item index
a position on @var{toolbar}

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-toolbar-set-show-arrow  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-toolbar>}) (show_arrow@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-show-arrow
Sets whether to show an overflow menu when @var{toolbar} doesn't have room for
all items on it. If @samp{@code{#t}}, items that there are not room are
available through an overflow menu.

@table @var
@item toolbar
a @code{<gtk-toolbar>}

@item show-arrow
Whether to show an overflow menu

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-toolbar-set-orientation  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-toolbar>}) (orientation@tie{}@code{<gtk-orientation>})
@deffnx Method set-orientation
Sets whether a toolbar should appear horizontally or vertically.

@table @var
@item toolbar
a @code{<gtk-toolbar>}.

@item orientation
a new @code{<gtk-orientation>}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-toolbar-set-tooltips  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-toolbar>}) (enable@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-tooltips
Sets if the tooltips of a toolbar should be active or not.

@table @var
@item toolbar
a @code{<gtk-toolbar>}.

@item enable
set to @samp{@code{#f}} to disable the tooltips, or @samp{@code{#t}} to enable
them.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-toolbar-get-show-arrow  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-toolbar>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-show-arrow
Returns whether the toolbar has an overflow menu. See
@code{gtk-toolbar-set-show-arrow}.

@table @var
@item toolbar
a @code{<gtk-toolbar>}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if the toolbar has an overflow menu.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-toolbar-get-orientation  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-toolbar>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-orientation>})
@deffnx Method get-orientation
Retrieves the current orientation of the toolbar. See
@code{gtk-toolbar-set-orientation}.

@table @var
@item toolbar
a @code{<gtk-toolbar>}

@item ret
the orientation

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-toolbar-get-style  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-toolbar>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-toolbar-style>})
@deffnx Method get-style
Retrieves whether the toolbar has text, icons, or both . See
@code{gtk-toolbar-set-style}.

@table @var
@item toolbar
a @code{<gtk-toolbar>}

@item ret
the current style of @var{toolbar}

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-toolbar-get-icon-size  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-toolbar>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-icon-size>})
@deffnx Method get-icon-size
Retrieves the icon size for the toolbar. See @code{gtk-toolbar-set-icon-size}.

@table @var
@item toolbar
a @code{<gtk-toolbar>}

@item ret
the current icon size for the icons on the toolbar.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-toolbar-get-tooltips  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-toolbar>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-tooltips
Retrieves whether tooltips are enabled. See @code{gtk-toolbar-set-tooltips}.

@table @var
@item toolbar
a @code{<gtk-toolbar>}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if tooltips are enabled

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-toolbar-get-relief-style  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-toolbar>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-relief-style>})
@deffnx Method get-relief-style
Returns the relief style of buttons on @var{toolbar}. See
@code{gtk-button-set-relief}.

@table @var
@item toolbar
a @code{<gtk-toolbar>}

@item ret
The relief style of buttons on @var{toolbar}.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-toolbar-set-style  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-toolbar>}) (style@tie{}@code{<gtk-toolbar-style>})
@deffnx Method set-style
Alters the view of @var{toolbar} to display either icons only, text only, or
both.

@table @var
@item toolbar
a @code{<gtk-toolbar>}.

@item style
the new style for @var{toolbar}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-toolbar-unset-style  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-toolbar>})
@deffnx Method unset-style
Unsets a toolbar style set with @code{gtk-toolbar-set-style}, so that user
preferences will be used to determine the toolbar style.

@table @var
@item toolbar
a @code{<gtk-toolbar>}

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
