
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-file-chooser-button>
Derives from @code{<gtk-file-chooser>}, @code{<gtk-hbox>}.

This class defines the following slots:

@table @code
@item dialog
The file chooser dialog to use.

@item focus-on-click
Whether the button grabs focus when it is clicked with the mouse

@item title
The title of the file chooser dialog.

@item width-chars
The desired width of the button widget, in characters.

@end table

@end deftp

@defop Signal <gtk-file-chooser-button> file-set 
undocumented
@end defop

@deffn Function gtk-file-chooser-button-new  (title@tie{}@code{mchars}) (action@tie{}@code{<gtk-file-chooser-action>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new file-selecting button widget.

@table @var
@item title
the title of the browse dialog.

@item action
the open mode for the widget.

@item ret
a new button widget.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-file-chooser-button-get-title  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-file-chooser-button>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-title
Retrieves the title of the browse dialog used by @var{button}. The returned
value should not be modified or freed.

@table @var
@item button
the button widget to examine.

@item ret
a pointer to the browse dialog's title.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-file-chooser-button-set-title  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-file-chooser-button>}) (title@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method set-title
Modifies the @var{title} of the browse dialog used by @var{button}.

@table @var
@item button
the button widget to modify.

@item title
the new browse dialog title.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
