
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-range>
Derives from @code{<gtk-widget>}.

This class defines the following slots:

@table @code
@item update-policy
How the range should be updated on the screen

@item adjustment
The GtkAdjustment that contains the current value of this range object

@item inverted
Invert direction slider moves to increase range value

@item lower-stepper-sensitivity
The sensitivity policy for the stepper that points to the adjustment's lower
side

@item upper-stepper-sensitivity
The sensitivity policy for the stepper that points to the adjustment's upper
side

@item show-fill-level
Whether to display a fill level indicator graphics on trough.

@item restrict-to-fill-level
Whether to restrict the upper boundary to the fill level.

@item fill-level
The fill level.

@end table

@end deftp

@defop Signal <gtk-range> value-changed 
Emitted when the range value changes.

@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-range> adjust-bounds  (arg0@tie{}@code{<gdouble>})
@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-range> move-slider  (arg0@tie{}@code{<gtk-scroll-type>})
Virtual function that moves the slider. Used for keybindings.

@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-range> change-value  (arg0@tie{}@code{<gtk-scroll-type>}) (arg1@tie{}@code{<gdouble>}) @result{}@tie{}@code{<gboolean>}
The ::change-value signal is emitted when a scroll action is performed on a
range. It allows an application to determine the type of scroll event that
occurred and the resultant new value. The application can handle the event
itself and return @samp{@code{#t}} to prevent further processing. Or, by
returning @samp{@code{#f}}, it can pass the event to other handlers until the
default GTK+ handler is reached.

The value parameter is unrounded. An application that overrides the
::change-value signal is responsible for clamping the value to the desired
number of decimal digits; the default GTK+ handler clamps the value based on
@var{range->round-digits}.

It is not possible to use delayed update policies in an overridden
::change-value handler.

Since 2.6

@end defop

@deffn Function gtk-range-get-adjustment  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-range>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-adjustment>})
@deffnx Method get-adjustment
Get the @code{<gtk-adjustment>} which is the "model" object for
@code{<gtk-range>}. See @code{gtk-range-set-adjustment} for details. The return
value does not have a reference added, so should not be unreferenced.

@table @var
@item range
a @code{<gtk-range>}

@item ret
a @code{<gtk-adjustment>}

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-range-set-update-policy  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-range>}) (policy@tie{}@code{<gtk-update-type>})
@deffnx Method set-update-policy
Sets the update policy for the range. @code{<gtk-update-continuous>} means that
anytime the range slider is moved, the range value will change and the
value_changed signal will be emitted. @code{<gtk-update-delayed>} means that the
value will be updated after a brief timeout where no slider motion occurs, so
updates are spaced by a short time rather than continuous.
@code{<gtk-update-discontinuous>} means that the value will only be updated when
the user releases the button and ends the slider drag operation.

@table @var
@item range
a @code{<gtk-range>}

@item policy
update policy

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-range-set-adjustment  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-range>}) (adjustment@tie{}@code{<gtk-adjustment>})
@deffnx Method set-adjustment
Sets the adjustment to be used as the "model" object for this range widget. The
adjustment indicates the current range value, the minimum and maximum range
values, the step/page increments used for keybindings and scrolling, and the
page size. The page size is normally 0 for @code{<gtk-scale>} and nonzero for
@code{<gtk-scrollbar>}, and indicates the size of the visible area of the widget
being scrolled. The page size affects the size of the scrollbar slider.

@table @var
@item range
a @code{<gtk-range>}

@item adjustment
a @code{<gtk-adjustment>}

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-range-get-inverted  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-range>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-inverted
Gets the value set by @code{gtk-range-set-inverted}.

@table @var
@item range
a @code{<gtk-range>}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if the range is inverted

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-range-set-inverted  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-range>}) (setting@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-inverted
Ranges normally move from lower to higher values as the slider moves from top to
bottom or left to right. Inverted ranges have higher values at the top or on the
right rather than on the bottom or left.

@table @var
@item range
a @code{<gtk-range>}

@item setting
@samp{@code{#t}} to invert the range

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-range-get-update-policy  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-range>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-update-type>})
@deffnx Method get-update-policy
Gets the update policy of @var{range}. See @code{gtk-range-set-update-policy}.

@table @var
@item range
a @code{<gtk-range>}

@item ret
the current update policy

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-range-get-value  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-range>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{double})
@deffnx Method get-value
Gets the current value of the range.

@table @var
@item range
a @code{<gtk-range>}

@item ret
current value of the range.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-range-set-increments  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-range>}) (step@tie{}@code{double}) (page@tie{}@code{double})
@deffnx Method set-increments
Sets the step and page sizes for the range. The step size is used when the user
clicks the @code{<gtk-scrollbar>} arrows or moves @code{<gtk-scale>} via arrow
keys. The page size is used for example when moving via Page Up or Page Down
keys.

@table @var
@item range
a @code{<gtk-range>}

@item step
step size

@item page
page size

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-range-set-range  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-range>}) (min@tie{}@code{double}) (max@tie{}@code{double})
@deffnx Method set-range
Sets the allowable values in the @code{<gtk-range>}, and clamps the range value
to be between @var{min} and @var{max}. (If the range has a non-zero page size,
it is clamped between @var{min} and @var{max} - page-size.)

@table @var
@item range
a @code{<gtk-range>}

@item min
minimum range value

@item max
maximum range value

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-range-set-value  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-range>}) (value@tie{}@code{double})
@deffnx Method set-value
Sets the current value of the range; if the value is outside the minimum or
maximum range values, it will be clamped to fit inside them. The range emits the
"value_changed" signal if the value changes.

@table @var
@item range
a @code{<gtk-range>}

@item value
new value of the range

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
