
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-text-tag-table>
Derives from @code{<gobject>}.

This class defines no direct slots.

@end deftp

@defop Signal <gtk-text-tag-table> tag-changed  (arg0@tie{}@code{<gtk-text-tag>}) (arg1@tie{}@code{<gboolean>})
@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-text-tag-table> tag-added  (arg0@tie{}@code{<gtk-text-tag>})
@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-text-tag-table> tag-removed  (arg0@tie{}@code{<gtk-text-tag>})
@end defop

@deffn Function gtk-text-tag-table-new  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-text-tag-table>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-text-tag-table>}. The table contains no tags by
default.

@table @var
@item ret
a new @code{<gtk-text-tag-table>}

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-text-tag-table-add  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-text-tag-table>}) (tag@tie{}@code{<gtk-text-tag>})
@deffnx Method add
Add a tag to the table. The tag is assigned the highest priority in the table.

@var{tag} must not be in a tag table already, and may not have the same name as
an already-added tag.

@table @var
@item table
a @code{<gtk-text-tag-table>}

@item tag
a @code{<gtk-text-tag>}

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-text-tag-table-remove  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-text-tag-table>}) (tag@tie{}@code{<gtk-text-tag>})
@deffnx Method remove
Remove a tag from the table. This will remove the table's reference to the tag,
so be careful - the tag will end up destroyed if you don't have a reference to
it.

@table @var
@item table
a @code{<gtk-text-tag-table>}

@item tag
a @code{<gtk-text-tag>}

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-text-tag-table-lookup  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-text-tag-table>}) (name@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-text-tag>})
@deffnx Method lookup
Look up a named tag.

@table @var
@item table
a @code{<gtk-text-tag-table>}

@item name
name of a tag

@item ret
The tag, or @samp{@code{#f}} if none by that name is in the table.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-text-tag-table-get-size  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-text-tag-table>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-size
Returns the size of the table (number of tags)

@table @var
@item table
a @code{<gtk-text-tag-table>}

@item ret
number of tags in @var{table}

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
