
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-recent-chooser>
Derives from @code{<ginterface>}.

This class defines the following slots:

@table @code
@item recent-manager
The RecentManager object to use

@item show-private
Whether the private items should be displayed

@item show-not-found
Whether the items pointing to unavailable resources should be displayed

@item show-tips
Whether there should be a tooltip on the item

@item show-icons
Whether there should be an icon near the item

@item sort-type
The sorting order of the items displayed

@item select-multiple
Whether to allow multiple items to be selected

@item filter
The current filter for selecting which resources are displayed

@item limit
The maximum number of items to be displayed

@item local-only
Whether the selected resource(s) should be limited to local file: URIs

@end table

@end deftp

@defop Signal <gtk-recent-chooser> selection-changed 
This signal is emitted when there is a change in the set of selected recently
used resources. This can happen when a user modifies the selection with the
mouse or the keyboard, or when explicitely calling functions to change the
selection.

Since 2.10

@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-recent-chooser> item-activated 
This signal is emitted when the user "activates" a recent item in the recent
chooser. This can happen by double-clicking on an item in the recently used
resources list, or by pressing @c (keycap "Enter") .

Since 2.10

@end defop

@deffn Function gtk-recent-chooser-set-show-private  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}) (show_private@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-show-private
Whether to show recently used resources marked registered as private.

@table @var
@item chooser
a @code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}

@item show-private
@samp{@code{#t}} to show private items, @samp{@code{#f}} otherwise

@end table

Since 2.10

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-recent-chooser-get-show-private  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-show-private
Returns whether @var{chooser} should display recently used resources registered
as private.

@table @var
@item chooser
a @code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if the recent chooser should show private items,
@samp{@code{#f}} otherwise.

@end table

Since 2.10

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-recent-chooser-set-show-icons  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}) (show_icons@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-show-icons
Sets whether @var{chooser} should show an icon near the resource when displaying
it.

@table @var
@item chooser
a @code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}

@item show-icons
whether to show an icon near the resource

@end table

Since 2.10

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-recent-chooser-get-show-icons  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-show-icons
Retrieves whether @var{chooser} should show an icon near the resource.

@table @var
@item chooser
a @code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if the icons should be displayed, @samp{@code{#f}} otherwise.

@end table

Since 2.10

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-recent-chooser-set-local-only  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}) (local_only@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-local-only
Sets whether only local resources, that is resources using the file:// URI
scheme, should be shown in the recently used resources selector. If
@var{local-only} is @samp{@code{#t}} (the default) then the shown resources are
guaranteed to be accessible through the operating system native file system.

@table @var
@item chooser
a @code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}

@item local-only
@samp{@code{#t}} if only local files can be shown

@end table

Since 2.10

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-recent-chooser-get-local-only  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-local-only
Gets whether only local resources should be shown in the recently used resources
selector. See @code{gtk-recent-chooser-set-local-only}

@table @var
@item chooser
a @code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if only local resources should be shown.

@end table

Since 2.10

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-recent-chooser-set-limit  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}) (limit@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method set-limit
Sets the number of items that should be returned by
@code{gtk-recent-chooser-get-items} and @code{gtk-recent-chooser-get-uris}.

@table @var
@item chooser
a @code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}

@item limit
a positive integer, or -1 for all items

@end table

Since 2.10

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-recent-chooser-get-limit  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-limit
Gets the number of items returned by @code{gtk-recent-chooser-get-items} and
@code{gtk-recent-chooser-get-uris}.

@table @var
@item chooser
a @code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}

@item ret
A positive integer, or -1 meaning that all items are returned.

@end table

Since 2.10

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-recent-chooser-set-show-tips  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}) (show_tips@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-show-tips
Sets whether to show a tooltips on the widget.

@table @var
@item chooser
a @code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}

@item show-tips
@samp{@code{#t}} if tooltips should be shown

@end table

Since 2.10

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-recent-chooser-get-show-tips  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-show-tips
Gets whether @var{chooser} should display tooltips.

@table @var
@item chooser
a @code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if the recent chooser should show tooltips, @samp{@code{#f}}
otherwise.

@end table

Since 2.10

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-recent-chooser-set-show-numbers  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}) (show_numbers@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-show-numbers
Whether to show recently used resources prepended by a unique number.

Do not use this function: use @code{gtk-recent-chooser-menu-set-show-numbers}
instead.

@table @var
@item chooser
a @code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}

@item show-numbers
@samp{@code{#t}} to show numbers, @samp{@code{#f}} otherwise

@end table

Since 2.10

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-recent-chooser-get-show-numbers  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-show-numbers
Returns whether @var{chooser} should display recently used resources prepended
by a unique number.

Do not use this function: use @code{gtk-recent-chooser-menu-get-show-numbers}
instead.

@table @var
@item chooser
a @code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if the recent chooser should show display numbers,
@samp{@code{#f}} otherwise.

@end table

Since 2.10

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-recent-chooser-set-sort-type  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}) (sort_type@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-sort-type>})
@deffnx Method set-sort-type
Changes the sorting order of the recently used resources list displayed by
@var{chooser}.

@table @var
@item chooser
a @code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}

@item sort-type
sort order that the chooser should use

@end table

Since 2.10

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-recent-chooser-get-sort-type  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-sort-type>})
@deffnx Method get-sort-type
Gets the value set by @code{gtk-recent-chooser-set-sort-type}.

@table @var
@item chooser
a @code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}

@item ret
the sorting order of the @var{chooser}.

@end table

Since 2.10

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-recent-chooser-set-current-uri  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}) (uri@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-current-uri
Sets @var{uri} as the current URI for @var{chooser}.

@table @var
@item chooser
a @code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}

@item uri
a URI

@item error
return location for a @code{<g-error>}, or @samp{@code{#f}}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if the URI was found.

@end table

Since 2.10

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-recent-chooser-get-current-uri  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-current-uri
Gets the URI currently selected by @var{chooser}.

@table @var
@item chooser
a @code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}

@item ret
a newly allocated string holding a URI.

@end table

Since 2.10

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-recent-chooser-get-current-item  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-info>})
@deffnx Method get-current-item
Gets the @code{<gtk-recent-info>} currently selected by @var{chooser}.

@table @var
@item chooser
a @code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}

@item ret
a @code{<gtk-recent-info>}. Use @code{gtk-recent-info-unref} when when you have
finished using it.

@end table

Since 2.10

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-recent-chooser-select-uri  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}) (uri@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method select-uri
Selects @var{uri} inside @var{chooser}.

@table @var
@item chooser
a @code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}

@item uri
a URI

@item error
return location for a @code{<g-error>}, or @samp{@code{#f}}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if @var{uri} was found.

@end table

Since 2.10

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-recent-chooser-unselect-uri  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}) (uri@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method unselect-uri
Unselects @var{uri} inside @var{chooser}.

@table @var
@item chooser
a @code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}

@item uri
a URI

@end table

Since 2.10

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-recent-chooser-select-all  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-chooser>})
@deffnx Method select-all
Selects all the items inside @var{chooser}, if the @var{chooser} supports
multiple selection.

@table @var
@item chooser
a @code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}

@end table

Since 2.10

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-recent-chooser-unselect-all  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-chooser>})
@deffnx Method unselect-all
Unselects all the items inside @var{chooser}.

@table @var
@item chooser
a @code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}

@end table

Since 2.10

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-recent-chooser-get-items  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{glist-of})
@deffnx Method get-items
Gets the list of recently used resources in form of @code{<gtk-recent-info>}
objects.

The return value of this function is affected by the "sort-type" and "limit"
properties of @var{chooser}.

@table @var
@item chooser
a @code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}

@item ret
A newly allocated list of @code{<gtk-recent-info>} objects. You should use
@code{gtk-recent-info-unref} on every item of the list, and then free the list
itself using @code{g-list-free}.

@end table

Since 2.10

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-recent-chooser-add-filter  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}) (filter@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-filter>})
@deffnx Method add-filter
Adds @var{filter} to the list of @code{<gtk-recent-filter>} objects held by
@var{chooser}.

If no previous filter objects were defined, this function will call
@code{gtk-recent-chooser-set-filter}.

@table @var
@item chooser
a @code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}

@item filter
a @code{<gtk-recent-filter>}

@end table

Since 2.10

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-recent-chooser-remove-filter  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}) (filter@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-filter>})
@deffnx Method remove-filter
Removes @var{filter} from the list of @code{<gtk-recent-filter>} objects held by
@var{chooser}.

@table @var
@item chooser
a @code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}

@item filter
a @code{<gtk-recent-filter>}

@end table

Since 2.10

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-recent-chooser-list-filters  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{gslist-of})
@deffnx Method list-filters
Gets the @code{<gtk-recent-filter>} objects held by @var{chooser}.

@table @var
@item chooser
a @code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}

@item ret
A singly linked list of @code{<gtk-recent-filter>} objects. You should just free
the returned list using @code{g-slist-free}.

@end table

Since 2.10

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-recent-chooser-set-filter  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}) (filter@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-filter>})
@deffnx Method set-filter
Sets @var{filter} as the current @code{<gtk-recent-filter>} object used by
@var{chooser} to affect the displayed recently used resources.

@table @var
@item chooser
a @code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}

@item filter
a @code{<gtk-recent-filter>}

@end table

Since 2.10

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-recent-chooser-get-filter  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-recent-filter>})
@deffnx Method get-filter
Gets the @code{<gtk-recent-filter>} object currently used by @var{chooser} to
affect the display of the recently used resources.

@table @var
@item chooser
a @code{<gtk-recent-chooser>}

@item ret
a @code{<gtk-recent-filter>} object.

@end table

Since 2.10

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
