
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-entry-completion>
Derives from @code{<gtk-buildable>}, @code{<gtk-cell-layout>}, @code{<gobject>}.

This class defines the following slots:

@table @code
@item model
The model to find matches in

@item minimum-key-length
Minimum length of the search key in order to look up matches

@item text-column
The column of the model containing the strings.

@item inline-completion
Whether the common prefix should be inserted automatically

@item popup-completion
Whether the completions should be shown in a popup window

@item popup-set-width
If TRUE, the popup window will have the same size as the entry

@item popup-single-match
If TRUE, the popup window will appear for a single match.

@item inline-selection
Your description here

@end table

@end deftp

@defop Signal <gtk-entry-completion> insert-prefix  (arg0@tie{}@code{<gchararray>}) @result{}@tie{}@code{<gboolean>}
Gets emitted when the inline autocompletion is triggered. The default behaviour
is to make the entry display the whole prefix and select the newly inserted
part.

Applications may connect to this signal in order to insert only a smaller part
of the @var{prefix} into the entry - e.g. the entry used in the
@code{<gtk-file-chooser>} inserts only the part of the prefix up to the next
'/'.

Since 2.6

@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-entry-completion> match-selected  (arg0@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-model>}) (arg1@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-iter>}) @result{}@tie{}@code{<gboolean>}
Gets emitted when a match from the list is selected. The default behaviour is to
replace the contents of the entry with the contents of the text column in the
row pointed to by @var{iter}.

Since 2.4

@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-entry-completion> cursor-on-match  (arg0@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-model>}) (arg1@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-iter>}) @result{}@tie{}@code{<gboolean>}
undocumented
@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-entry-completion> action-activated  (arg0@tie{}@code{<gint>})
Gets emitted when an action is activated.

Since 2.4

@end defop

@deffn Function gtk-entry-completion-new  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-entry-completion>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-entry-completion>} object.

@table @var
@item ret
A newly created @code{<gtk-entry-completion>} object.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-entry-completion-get-entry  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-entry-completion>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
@deffnx Method get-entry
Gets the entry @var{completion} has been attached to.

@table @var
@item completion
A @code{<gtk-entry-completion>}.

@item ret
The entry @var{completion} has been attached to.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-entry-completion-set-model  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-entry-completion>}) (model@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-model>})
@deffnx Method set-model
Sets the model for a @code{<gtk-entry-completion>}. If @var{completion} already
has a model set, it will remove it before setting the new model. If model is
@samp{@code{#f}}, then it will unset the model.

@table @var
@item completion
A @code{<gtk-entry-completion>}.

@item model
The @code{<gtk-tree-model>}.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-entry-completion-get-model  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-entry-completion>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-model>})
@deffnx Method get-model
Returns the model the @code{<gtk-entry-completion>} is using as data source.
Returns @samp{@code{#f}} if the model is unset.

@table @var
@item completion
A @code{<gtk-entry-completion>}.

@item ret
A @code{<gtk-tree-model>}, or @samp{@code{#f}} if none is currently being used.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-entry-completion-complete  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-entry-completion>})
@deffnx Method complete
Requests a completion operation, or in other words a refiltering of the current
list with completions, using the current key. The completion list view will be
updated accordingly.

@table @var
@item completion
A @code{<gtk-entry-completion>}.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-entry-completion-insert-prefix  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-entry-completion>})
@deffnx Method insert-prefix
Requests a prefix insertion.

@table @var
@item completion
a @code{<gtk-entry-completion>}

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-entry-completion-delete-action  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-entry-completion>}) (index@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method delete-action
Deletes the action at @var{index} from @var{completion}'s action list.

@table @var
@item completion
A @code{<gtk-entry-completion>}.

@item index
The index of the item to Delete.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
