
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-combo-box>
Derives from @code{<gtk-cell-layout>}, @code{<gtk-cell-editable>},
@code{<gtk-bin>}.

This class defines the following slots:

@table @code
@item model
The model for the combo box

@item wrap-width
Wrap width for laying out the items in a grid

@item row-span-column
TreeModel column containing the row span values

@item column-span-column
TreeModel column containing the column span values

@item active
The item which is currently active

@item add-tearoffs
Whether dropdowns should have a tearoff menu item

@item tearoff-title
A title that may be displayed by the window manager when the popup is torn-off

@item has-frame
Whether the combo box draws a frame around the child

@item focus-on-click
Whether the combo box grabs focus when it is clicked with the mouse

@item popup-shown
Whether the combo's dropdown is shown

@end table

@end deftp

@defop Signal <gtk-combo-box> changed 
The changed signal is emitted when the active item is changed. The can be due to
the user selecting a different item from the list, or due to a call to
@code{gtk-combo-box-set-active-iter}. It will also be emitted while typing into
a GtkComboBoxEntry, as well as when selecting an item from the
GtkComboBoxEntry's list.

Since 2.4

@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-combo-box> move-active  (arg0@tie{}@code{<gtk-scroll-type>})
undocumented
@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-combo-box> popup 
undocumented
@end defop

@defop Signal <gtk-combo-box> popdown  @result{}@tie{}@code{<gboolean>}
undocumented
@end defop

@deffn Function gtk-combo-box-new  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new empty @code{<gtk-combo-box>}.

@table @var
@item ret
A new @code{<gtk-combo-box>}.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-combo-box-new-with-model  (model@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-model>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-combo-box>} with the model initialized to @var{model}.

@table @var
@item model
A @code{<gtk-tree-model>}.

@item ret
A new @code{<gtk-combo-box>}.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-combo-box-get-wrap-width  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-combo-box>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-wrap-width
Returns the wrap width which is used to determine the number of columns for the
popup menu. If the wrap width is larger than 1, the combo box is in table mode.

@table @var
@item combo-box
A @code{<gtk-combo-box>}.

@item ret
the wrap width.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-combo-box-set-wrap-width  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-combo-box>}) (width@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method set-wrap-width
Sets the wrap width of @var{combo-box} to be @var{width}. The wrap width is
basically the preferred number of columns when you want the popup to be layed
out in a table.

@table @var
@item combo-box
A @code{<gtk-combo-box>}.

@item width
Preferred number of columns.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-combo-box-get-row-span-column  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-combo-box>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-row-span-column
Returns the column with row span information for @var{combo-box}.

@table @var
@item combo-box
A @code{<gtk-combo-box>}.

@item ret
the row span column.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-combo-box-set-row-span-column  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-combo-box>}) (row_span@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method set-row-span-column
Sets the column with row span information for @var{combo-box} to be
@var{row-span}. The row span column contains integers which indicate how many
rows an item should span.

@table @var
@item combo-box
A @code{<gtk-combo-box>}.

@item row-span
A column in the model passed during construction.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-combo-box-get-active  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-combo-box>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method get-active
Returns the index of the currently active item, or -1 if there's no active item.
If the model is a non-flat treemodel, and the active item is not an immediate
child of the root of the tree, this function returns
@samp{gtk_tree_path_get_indices (path)[0]}, where @samp{path} is the
@code{<gtk-tree-path>} of the active item.

@table @var
@item combo-box
A @code{<gtk-combo-box>}.

@item ret
An integer which is the index of the currently active item, or -1 if there's no
active item.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-combo-box-set-active  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-combo-box>}) (index_@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method set-active
Sets the active item of @var{combo-box} to be the item at @var{index}.

@table @var
@item combo-box
A @code{<gtk-combo-box>}.

@item index
An index in the model passed during construction, or -1 to have no active item.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-combo-box-get-active-iter  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-combo-box>}) (iter@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-iter>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-active-iter
Sets @var{iter} to point to the current active item, if it exists.

@table @var
@item combo-box
A @code{<gtk-combo-box>}

@item iter
The uninitialized @code{<gtk-tree-iter>}.

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}}, if @var{iter} was set

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-combo-box-set-active-iter  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-combo-box>}) (iter@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-iter>})
@deffnx Method set-active-iter
Sets the current active item to be the one referenced by @var{iter}. @var{iter}
must correspond to a path of depth one.

@table @var
@item combo-box
A @code{<gtk-combo-box>}

@item iter
The @code{<gtk-tree-iter>}.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-combo-box-get-model  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-combo-box>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-model>})
@deffnx Method get-model
Returns the @code{<gtk-tree-model>} which is acting as data source for
@var{combo-box}.

@table @var
@item combo-box
A @code{<gtk-combo-box>}.

@item ret
A @code{<gtk-tree-model>} which was passed during construction.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-combo-box-set-model  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-combo-box>}) (model@tie{}@code{<gtk-tree-model>})
@deffnx Method set-model
Sets the model used by @var{combo-box} to be @var{model}. Will unset a
previously set model (if applicable). If model is @samp{@code{#f}}, then it will
unset the model.

Note that this function does not clear the cell renderers, you have to call
@code{gtk-combo-box-cell-layout-clear} yourself if you need to set up different
cell renderers for the new model.

@table @var
@item combo-box
A @code{<gtk-combo-box>}.

@item model
A @code{<gtk-tree-model>}.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-combo-box-new-text  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Convenience function which constructs a new text combo box, which is a
@code{<gtk-combo-box>} just displaying strings. If you use this function to
create a text combo box, you should only manipulate its data source with the
following convenience functions: @code{gtk-combo-box-append-text},
@code{gtk-combo-box-insert-text}, @code{gtk-combo-box-prepend-text} and
@code{gtk-combo-box-remove-text}.

@table @var
@item ret
A new text combo box.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-combo-box-append-text  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-combo-box>}) (text@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method append-text
Appends @var{string} to the list of strings stored in @var{combo-box}. Note that
you can only use this function with combo boxes constructed with
@code{gtk-combo-box-new-text}.

@table @var
@item combo-box
A @code{<gtk-combo-box>} constructed using @code{gtk-combo-box-new-text}.

@item text
A string.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-combo-box-insert-text  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-combo-box>}) (position@tie{}@code{int}) (text@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method insert-text
Inserts @var{string} at @var{position} in the list of strings stored in
@var{combo-box}. Note that you can only use this function with combo boxes
constructed with @code{gtk-combo-box-new-text}.

@table @var
@item combo-box
A @code{<gtk-combo-box>} constructed using @code{gtk-combo-box-new-text}.

@item position
An index to insert @var{text}.

@item text
A string.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-combo-box-prepend-text  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-combo-box>}) (text@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method prepend-text
Prepends @var{string} to the list of strings stored in @var{combo-box}. Note
that you can only use this function with combo boxes constructed with
@code{gtk-combo-box-new-text}.

@table @var
@item combo-box
A @code{<gtk-combo-box>} constructed with @code{gtk-combo-box-new-text}.

@item text
A string.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-combo-box-remove-text  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-combo-box>}) (position@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method remove-text
Removes the string at @var{position} from @var{combo-box}. Note that you can
only use this function with combo boxes constructed with
@code{gtk-combo-box-new-text}.

@table @var
@item combo-box
A @code{<gtk-combo-box>} constructed with @code{gtk-combo-box-new-text}.

@item position
Index of the item to remove.

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-combo-box-get-active-text  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-combo-box>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-active-text
Returns the currently active string in @var{combo-box} or @samp{@code{#f}} if
none is selected. Note that you can only use this function with combo boxes
constructed with @code{gtk-combo-box-new-text} and with
@code{<gtk-combo-box-entry>}s.

@table @var
@item combo-box
A @code{<gtk-combo-box>} constructed with @code{gtk-combo-box-new-text}.

@item ret
a newly allocated string containing the currently active text.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-combo-box-popup  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-combo-box>})
@deffnx Method popup
Pops up the menu or dropdown list of @var{combo-box}.

This function is mostly intended for use by accessibility technologies;
applications should have little use for it.

@table @var
@item combo-box
a @code{<gtk-combo-box>}

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-combo-box-popdown  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-combo-box>})
@deffnx Method popdown
Hides the menu or dropdown list of @var{combo-box}.

This function is mostly intended for use by accessibility technologies;
applications should have little use for it.

@table @var
@item combo-box
a @code{<gtk-combo-box>}

@end table

Since 2.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-combo-box-get-popup-accessible  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-combo-box>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<atk-object>})
@deffnx Method get-popup-accessible
Gets the accessible object corresponding to the combo box's popup.

This function is mostly intended for use by accessibility technologies;
applications should have little use for it.

@table @var
@item combo-box
a @code{<gtk-combo-box>}

@item ret
the accessible object corresponding to the combo box's popup.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-combo-box-set-add-tearoffs  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-combo-box>}) (add_tearoffs@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-add-tearoffs
Sets whether the popup menu should have a tearoff menu item.

@table @var
@item combo-box
a @code{<gtk-combo-box>}

@item add-tearoffs
@samp{@code{#t}} to add tearoff menu items

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-combo-box-get-add-tearoffs  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-combo-box>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-add-tearoffs
Gets the current value of the :add-tearoffs property.

@table @var
@item combo-box
a @code{<gtk-combo-box>}

@item ret
the current value of the :add-tearoffs property.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-combo-box-set-title  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-combo-box>}) (title@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method set-title
Sets the menu's title in tearoff mode.

@table @var
@item combo-box
a @code{<gtk-combo-box>}

@item title
a title for the menu in tearoff mode.

@end table

Since 2.10

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-combo-box-get-title  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-combo-box>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-title
Gets the current title of the menu in tearoff mode. See
@code{gtk-combo-box-set-add-tearoffs}.

@table @var
@item combo-box
a @code{<gtk-combo-box>}

@item ret
the menu's title in tearoff mode. This is an internal copy of the string which
must not be freed.

@end table

Since 2.10

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-combo-box-set-focus-on-click  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-combo-box>}) (focus_on_click@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-focus-on-click
Sets whether the combo box will grab focus when it is clicked with the mouse.
Making mouse clicks not grab focus is useful in places like toolbars where you
don't want the keyboard focus removed from the main area of the application.

@table @var
@item combo
a @code{<gtk-combo-box>}

@item focus-on-click
whether the combo box grabs focus when clicked with the mouse

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-combo-box-get-focus-on-click  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-combo-box>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-focus-on-click
Returns whether the combo box grabs focus when it is clicked with the mouse. See
@code{gtk-combo-box-set-focus-on-click}.

@table @var
@item combo
a @code{<gtk-combo-box>}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if the combo box grabs focus when it is clicked with the mouse.

@end table

Since 2.6

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
