
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-font-selection>
Derives from @code{<gtk-vbox>}.

This class defines the following slots:

@table @code
@item font-name
The X string that represents this font

@item font
The GdkFont that is currently selected

@item preview-text
The text to display in order to demonstrate the selected font

@end table

@end deftp

@deffn Function gtk-font-selection-new  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-font-selection>}.

@table @var
@item ret
a new @code{<gtk-font-selection>}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-font-selection-get-font-name  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-font-selection>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-font-name
Gets the currently-selected font name. Note that this can be a different string
than what you set with @code{gtk-font-selection-set-font-name}, as the font
selection widget may normalize font names and thus return a string with a
different structure. For example, "Helvetica Italic Bold 12" could be normalized
to "Helvetica Bold Italic 12". Use @code{pango-font-description-equal} if you
want to compare two font descriptions.

@table @var
@item fontsel
a @code{<gtk-font-selection>}

@item ret
A string with the name of the current font, or @code{@code{#f}} if no font is
selected. You must free this string with @code{g-free}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-font-selection-set-font-name  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-font-selection>}) (fontname@tie{}@code{mchars}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-font-name
Sets the currently-selected font. Note that the @var{fontsel} needs to know the
screen in which it will appear for this to work; this can be guaranteed by
simply making sure that the @var{fontsel} is inserted in a toplevel window
before you call this function.

@table @var
@item fontsel
a @code{<gtk-font-selection>}

@item fontname
a font name like "Helvetica 12" or "Times Bold 18"

@item ret
@code{@code{#t}} if the font could be set successfully; @code{@code{#f}} if no
such font exists or if the @var{fontsel} doesn't belong to a particular screen
yet.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-font-selection-get-preview-text  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-font-selection>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-preview-text
Gets the text displayed in the preview area.

@table @var
@item fontsel
a @code{<gtk-font-selection>}.

@item ret
the text displayed in the preview area. This string is owned by the widget and
should not be modified or freed.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-font-selection-set-preview-text  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-font-selection>}) (text@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method set-preview-text
Sets the text displayed in the preview area.

@table @var
@item fontsel
a @code{<gtk-font-selection>}.

@item text
the text to display in the preview area.

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
