
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-fixed>
Derives from @code{<gtk-container>}.

This class defines no direct slots.

@end deftp

@deffn Function gtk-fixed-new  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Creates a new @code{<gtk-fixed>}.

@table @var
@item ret
a new @code{<gtk-fixed>}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-fixed-put  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-fixed>}) (widget@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) (x@tie{}@code{int}) (y@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method put
Adds a widget to a @code{<gtk-fixed>} container at the given position.

@table @var
@item fixed
a @code{<gtk-fixed>}.

@item widget
the widget to add.

@item x
the horizontal position to place the widget at.

@item y
the vertical position to place the widget at.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-fixed-move  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-fixed>}) (widget@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) (x@tie{}@code{int}) (y@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method move
Moves a child of a @code{<gtk-fixed>} container to the given position.

@table @var
@item fixed
a @code{<gtk-fixed>}.

@item widget
the child widget.

@item x
the horizontal position to move the widget to.

@item y
the vertical position to move the widget to.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-fixed-get-has-window  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-fixed>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-has-window
Gets whether the @code{<gtk-fixed>} has its own @code{<gdk-window>}. See
@code{gdk-fixed-set-has-window}.

@table @var
@item fixed
a @code{<gtk-widget>}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if @var{fixed} has its own window.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-fixed-set-has-window  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-fixed>}) (has_window@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-has-window
Sets whether a @code{<gtk-fixed>} widget is created with a separate
@code{<gdk-window>} for @var{widget->window} or not. (By default, it will be
created with no separate @code{<gdk-window>}). This function must be called
while the @code{<gtk-fixed>} is not realized, for instance, immediately after
the window is created.

This function was added to provide an easy migration path for older applications
which may expect @code{<gtk-fixed>} to have a separate window.

@table @var
@item fixed
a @code{<gtk-fixed>}

@item has-window
@samp{@code{#t}} if a separate window should be created

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
