
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <gtk-table>
Derives from @code{<gtk-container>}.

This class defines the following slots:

@table @code
@item n-rows
The number of rows in the table

@item n-columns
The number of columns in the table

@item column-spacing
The amount of space between two consecutive columns

@item row-spacing
The amount of space between two consecutive rows

@item homogeneous
If TRUE, the table cells are all the same width/height

@end table

@end deftp

@deffn Function gtk-table-new  (rows@tie{}@code{unsigned-int}) (columns@tie{}@code{unsigned-int}) (homogeneous@tie{}@code{bool}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>})
Used to create a new table widget. An initial size must be given by specifying
how many rows and columns the table should have, although this can be changed
later with @code{gtk-table-resize}. @var{rows} and @var{columns} must both be in
the range 0 .. 65535.

@table @var
@item rows
The number of rows the new table should have.

@item columns
The number of columns the new table should have.

@item homogeneous
If set to @samp{@code{#t}}, all table cells are resized to the size of the cell
containing the largest widget.

@item ret
A pointer to the the newly created table widget.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-table-resize  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-table>}) (rows@tie{}@code{unsigned-int}) (columns@tie{}@code{unsigned-int})
@deffnx Method resize
If you need to change a table's size @emph{after} it has been created, this
function allows you to do so.

@table @var
@item table
The @code{<gtk-table>} you wish to change the size of.

@item rows
The new number of rows.

@item columns
The new number of columns.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-table-attach  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-table>}) (child@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) (left_attach@tie{}@code{unsigned-int}) (right_attach@tie{}@code{unsigned-int}) (top_attach@tie{}@code{unsigned-int}) (bottom_attach@tie{}@code{unsigned-int}) (xoptions@tie{}@code{<gtk-attach-options>}) (yoptions@tie{}@code{<gtk-attach-options>}) (xpadding@tie{}@code{unsigned-int}) (ypadding@tie{}@code{unsigned-int})
@deffnx Method attach
Adds a widget to a table. The number of 'cells' that a widget will occupy is
specified by @var{left-attach}, @var{right-attach}, @var{top-attach} and
@var{bottom-attach}. These each represent the leftmost, rightmost, uppermost and
lowest column and row numbers of the table. (Columns and rows are indexed from
zero).

@table @var
@item table
The @code{<gtk-table>} to add a new widget to.

@item child
The widget to add.

@item left-attach
the column number to attach the left side of a child widget to.

@item right-attach
the column number to attach the right side of a child widget to.

@item top-attach
the row number to attach the top of a child widget to.

@item bottom-attach
the row number to attach the bottom of a child widget to.

@item xoptions
Used to specify the properties of the child widget when the table is resized.

@item yoptions
The same as xoptions, except this field determines behaviour of vertical
resizing.

@item xpadding
An integer value specifying the padding on the left and right of the widget
being added to the table.

@item ypadding
The amount of padding above and below the child widget.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-table-attach-defaults  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-table>}) (widget@tie{}@code{<gtk-widget>}) (left_attach@tie{}@code{unsigned-int}) (right_attach@tie{}@code{unsigned-int}) (top_attach@tie{}@code{unsigned-int}) (bottom_attach@tie{}@code{unsigned-int})
@deffnx Method attach-defaults
As there are many options associated with @code{gtk-table-attach}, this
convenience function provides the programmer with a means to add children to a
table with identical padding and expansion options. The values used for the
@code{<gtk-attach-options>} are @samp{GTK_EXPAND | GTK_FILL}, and the padding is
set to 0.

@table @var
@item table
The table to add a new child widget to.

@item widget
The child widget to add.

@item left-attach
The column number to attach the left side of the child widget to.

@item right-attach
The column number to attach the right side of the child widget to.

@item top-attach
The row number to attach the top of the child widget to.

@item bottom-attach
The row number to attach the bottom of the child widget to.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-table-set-row-spacing  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-table>}) (row@tie{}@code{unsigned-int}) (spacing@tie{}@code{unsigned-int})
@deffnx Method set-row-spacing
Changes the space between a given table row and the subsequent row.

@table @var
@item table
a @code{<gtk-table>} containing the row whose properties you wish to change.

@item row
row number whose spacing will be changed.

@item spacing
number of pixels that the spacing should take up.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-table-set-col-spacing  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-table>}) (column@tie{}@code{unsigned-int}) (spacing@tie{}@code{unsigned-int})
@deffnx Method set-col-spacing
Alters the amount of space between a given table column and the following
column.

@table @var
@item table
a @code{<gtk-table>}.

@item column
the column whose spacing should be changed.

@item spacing
number of pixels that the spacing should take up.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-table-set-row-spacings  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-table>}) (spacing@tie{}@code{unsigned-int})
@deffnx Method set-row-spacings
Sets the space between every row in @var{table} equal to @var{spacing}.

@table @var
@item table
a @code{<gtk-table>}.

@item spacing
the number of pixels of space to place between every row in the table.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-table-set-col-spacings  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-table>}) (spacing@tie{}@code{unsigned-int})
@deffnx Method set-col-spacings
Sets the space between every column in @var{table} equal to @var{spacing}.

@table @var
@item table
a @code{<gtk-table>}.

@item spacing
the number of pixels of space to place between every column in the table.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-table-set-homogeneous  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-table>}) (homogeneous@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method set-homogeneous
Changes the homogenous property of table cells, ie. whether all cells are an
equal size or not.

@table @var
@item table
The @code{<gtk-table>} you wish to set the homogeneous properties of.

@item homogeneous
Set to @samp{@code{#t}} to ensure all table cells are the same size. Set to
@samp{@code{#f}} if this is not your desired behaviour.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-table-get-default-row-spacing  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-table>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{unsigned-int})
@deffnx Method get-default-row-spacing
Gets the default row spacing for the table. This is the spacing that will be
used for newly added rows. (See @code{gtk-table-set-row-spacings})

@table @var
@item table
a @code{<gtk-table>}

@item ret
value: the default row spacing

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-table-get-homogeneous  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-table>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method get-homogeneous
Returns whether the table cells are all constrained to the same width and
height. (See @code{gtk-table-set-homogenous})

@table @var
@item table
a @code{<gtk-table>}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if the cells are all constrained to the same size

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-table-get-row-spacing  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-table>}) (row@tie{}@code{unsigned-int}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{unsigned-int})
@deffnx Method get-row-spacing
Gets the amount of space between row @var{row}, and row @var{row} + 1. See
@code{gtk-table-set-row-spacing}.

@table @var
@item table
a @code{<gtk-table>}

@item row
a row in the table, 0 indicates the first row

@item ret
the row spacing

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-table-get-col-spacing  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-table>}) (column@tie{}@code{unsigned-int}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{unsigned-int})
@deffnx Method get-col-spacing
Gets the amount of space between column @var{col}, and column @var{col} + 1. See
@code{gtk-table-set-col-spacing}.

@table @var
@item table
a @code{<gtk-table>}

@item column
a column in the table, 0 indicates the first column

@item ret
the column spacing

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function gtk-table-get-default-col-spacing  (self@tie{}@code{<gtk-table>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{unsigned-int})
@deffnx Method get-default-col-spacing
Gets the default column spacing for the table. This is the spacing that will be
used for newly added columns. (See @code{gtk-table-set-col-spacings})

@table @var
@item table
a @code{<gtk-table>}

@item ret
value: the default column spacing

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
