
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <pango-font-description>
@end deftp

@deftp Class <pango-font-metrics>
@end deftp

@deftp Class <pango-font>
This @code{<gobject>} class defines no properties, other than those defined by
its superclasses.

@end deftp

@deftp Class <pango-font-family>
This @code{<gobject>} class defines no properties, other than those defined by
its superclasses.

@end deftp

@deftp Class <pango-font-face>
This @code{<gobject>} class defines no properties, other than those defined by
its superclasses.

@end deftp

@deftp Class <pango-font-map>
This @code{<gobject>} class defines no properties, other than those defined by
its superclasses.

@end deftp

@deftp Class <pango-fontset>
This @code{<gobject>} class defines no properties, other than those defined by
its superclasses.

@end deftp

@deffn Function pango-font-description-new  @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<pango-font-description>})
Creates a new font description structure with all fields unset.

@table @var
@item ret
the newly allocated @code{<pango-font-description>}, which should be freed using
@code{pango-font-description-free}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-description-copy  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font-description>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<pango-font-description>})
Make a copy of a @code{<pango-font-description>}.

@table @var
@item desc
a @code{<pango-font-description>}

@item ret
the newly allocated @code{<pango-font-description>}, which should be freed with
@code{pango-font-description-free}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-description-hash  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font-description>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{unsigned-int})
Computes a hash of a @code{<pango-font-description>} structure suitable to be
used, for example, as an argument to @code{g-hash-table-new}. The hash value is
independent of @var{desc->mask}.

@table @var
@item desc
a @code{<pango-font-description>}

@item ret
the hash value.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-description-equal  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font-description>}) (desc2@tie{}@code{<pango-font-description>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
Compares two font descriptions for equality. Two font descriptions are
considered equal if the fonts they describe are provably identical. This means
that their masks do not have to match, as long as other fields are all the same.
(Two font descriptions may result in identical fonts being loaded, but still
compare @samp{@code{#f}}.)

@table @var
@item desc1
a @code{<pango-font-description>}

@item desc2
another @code{<pango-font-description>}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if the two font descriptions are identical, @samp{@code{#f}}
otherwise.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-description-set-family  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font-description>}) (family@tie{}@code{mchars})
Sets the family name field of a font description. The family name represents a
family of related font styles, and will resolve to a particular
@code{<pango-font-family>}. In some uses of @code{<pango-font-description>}, it
is also possible to use a comma separated list of family names for this field.

@table @var
@item desc
a @code{<pango-font-description>}.

@item family
a string representing the family name.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-description-get-family  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font-description>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
Gets the family name field of a font description. See
@code{pango-font-description-set-family}.

@table @var
@item desc
a @code{<pango-font-description>}.

@item ret
the family name field for the font description, or @samp{@code{#f}} if not
previously set. This has the same life-time as the font description itself and
should not be freed.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-description-set-style  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font-description>}) (style@tie{}@code{<pango-style>})
Sets the style field of a @code{<pango-font-description>}. The
@code{<pango-style>} enumeration describes whether the font is slanted and the
manner in which it is slanted; it can be either @code{<pango-style-normal>},
@code{<pango-style-italic>}, or @code{<pango-style-oblique>}. Most fonts will
either have a italic style or an oblique style, but not both, and font matching
in Pango will match italic specifications with oblique fonts and vice-versa if
an exact match is not found.

@table @var
@item desc
a @code{<pango-font-description>}

@item style
the style for the font description

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-description-get-style  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font-description>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<pango-style>})
Gets the style field of a @code{<pango-font-description>}. See
@code{pango-font-description-set-style}.

@table @var
@item desc
a @code{<pango-font-description>}

@item ret
the style field for the font description. Use
@code{pango-font-description-get-set-fields} to find out if the field was
explicitly set or not.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-description-set-variant  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font-description>}) (variant@tie{}@code{<pango-variant>})
Sets the variant field of a font description. The @code{<pango-variant>} can
either be @samp{PANGO_VARIANT_NORMAL} or @samp{PANGO_VARIANT_SMALL_CAPS}.

@table @var
@item desc
a @code{<pango-font-description>}

@item variant
the variant type for the font description.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-description-get-variant  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font-description>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<pango-variant>})
Gets the variant field of a @code{<pango-font-description>}. See
@code{pango-font-description-set-variant}.

@table @var
@item desc
a @code{<pango-font-description>}.

@item ret
the variant field for the font description. Use
@code{pango-font-description-get-set-fields} to find out if the field was
explicitly set or not.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-description-set-weight  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font-description>}) (weight@tie{}@code{<pango-weight>})
Sets the weight field of a font description. The weight field specifies how bold
or light the font should be. In addition to the values of the
@code{<pango-weight>} enumeration, other intermediate numeric values are
possible.

@table @var
@item desc
a @code{<pango-font-description>}

@item weight
the weight for the font description.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-description-get-weight  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font-description>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<pango-weight>})
Gets the weight field of a font description. See
@code{pango-font-description-set-weight}.

@table @var
@item desc
a @code{<pango-font-description>}

@item ret
the weight field for the font description. Use
@code{pango-font-description-get-set-fields} to find out if the field was
explicitly set or not.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-description-set-stretch  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font-description>}) (stretch@tie{}@code{<pango-stretch>})
Sets the stretch field of a font description. The stretch field specifies how
narrow or wide the font should be.

@table @var
@item desc
a @code{<pango-font-description>}

@item stretch
the stretch for the font description

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-description-get-stretch  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font-description>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<pango-stretch>})
Gets the stretch field of a font description. See
@code{pango-font-description-set-stretch}.

@table @var
@item desc
a @code{<pango-font-description>}.

@item ret
the stretch field for the font description. Use
@code{pango-font-description-get-set-fields} to find out if the field was
explicitly set or not.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-description-set-size  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font-description>}) (size@tie{}@code{int})
Sets the size field of a font description in fractional points. This is mutually
exclusive with @code{pango-font-description-set-absolute-size}.

@table @var
@item desc
a @code{<pango-font-description>}

@item size
the size of the font in points, scaled by PANGO_SCALE. (That is, a @var{size}
value of 10 * PANGO_SCALE is a 10 point font. The conversion factor between
points and device units depends on system configuration and the output device.
For screen display, a logical DPI of 96 is common, in which case a 10 point font
corresponds to a 10 * (96 / 72) = 13.3 pixel font. Use
@code{pango-font-description-set-absolute-size} if you need a particular size in
device units.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-description-get-size  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font-description>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
Gets the size field of a font description. See
@code{pango-font-description-set-size}.

@table @var
@item desc
a @code{<pango-font-description>}

@item ret
the size field for the font description in points or device units. You must call
@code{pango-font-description-get-size-is-absolute} to find out which is the
case. Returns 0 if the size field has not previously been set or it has been set
to 0 explicitly. Use @code{pango-font-description-get-set-fields} to find out if
the field was explicitly set or not.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-description-unset-fields  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font-description>}) (to_unset@tie{}@code{<pango-font-mask>})
Unsets some of the fields in a @code{<pango-font-description>}. The unset fields
will get back to their default values.

@table @var
@item desc
a @code{<pango-font-description>}

@item to-unset
bitmask of fields in the @var{desc} to unset.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-description-merge  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font-description>}) (desc_to_merge@tie{}@code{<pango-font-description>}) (replace_existing@tie{}@code{bool})
Merges the fields that are set in @var{desc-to-merge} into the fields in
@var{desc}. If @var{replace-existing} is @samp{@code{#f}}, only fields in
@var{desc} that are not already set are affected. If @samp{@code{#t}}, then
fields that are already set will be replaced as well.

@table @var
@item desc
a @code{<pango-font-description>}

@item desc-to-merge
the @code{<pango-font-description>} to merge from

@item replace-existing
if @samp{@code{#t}}, replace fields in @var{desc} with the corresponding values
from @var{desc-to-merge}, even if they are already exist.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-description-merge-static  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font-description>}) (desc_to_merge@tie{}@code{<pango-font-description>}) (replace_existing@tie{}@code{bool})
Like @code{pango-font-description-merge}, but only a shallow copy is made of the
family name and other allocated fields. @var{desc} can only be used until
@var{desc-to-merge} is modified or freed. This is meant to be used when the
merged font description is only needed temporarily.

@table @var
@item desc
a @code{<pango-font-description>}

@item desc-to-merge
the @code{<pango-font-description>} to merge from

@item replace-existing
if @samp{@code{#t}}, replace fields in @var{desc} with the corresponding values
from @var{desc-to-merge}, even if they are already exist.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-description-better-match  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font-description>}) (old_match@tie{}@code{<pango-font-description>}) (new_match@tie{}@code{<pango-font-description>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
Determines if the style attributes of @var{new-match} are a closer match for
@var{desc} than @var{old-match}, or if @var{old-match} is @samp{@code{#f}},
determines if @var{new-match} is a match at all. Approximate matching is done
for weight and style; other attributes must match exactly.

@table @var
@item desc
a @code{<pango-font-description>}

@item old-match
a @code{<pango-font-description>}, or @samp{@code{#f}}

@item new-match
a @code{<pango-font-description>}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if @var{new-match} is a better match

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-description-to-string  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font-description>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
Creates a string representation of a font description. See
@code{pango-font-description-from-string} for a description of the format of the
string representation. The family list in the string description will only have
a terminating comma if the last word of the list is a valid style option.

@table @var
@item desc
a @code{<pango-font-description>}

@item ret
a new string that must be freed with @code{g-free}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-description-to-filename  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font-description>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
Creates a filename representation of a font description. The filename is
identical to the result from calling @code{pango-font-description-to-string},
but with underscores instead of characters that are untypical in filenames, and
in lower case only.

@table @var
@item desc
a @code{<pango-font-description>}

@item ret
a new string that must be freed with @code{g-free}.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-metrics-get-ascent  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font-metrics>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
Gets the ascent from a font metrics structure. The ascent is the distance from
the baseline to the logical top of a line of text. (The logical top may be above
or below the top of the actual drawn ink. It is necessary to lay out the text to
figure where the ink will be.)

@table @var
@item metrics
a @code{<pango-font-metrics>} structure

@item ret
the ascent, in Pango units. (1 point == @samp{PANGO_SCALE} Pango units.)

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-metrics-get-descent  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font-metrics>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{int})
Gets the descent from a font metrics structure. The descent is the distance from
the baseline to the logical bottom of a line of text. (The logical bottom may be
above or below the bottom of the actual drawn ink. It is necessary to lay out
the text to figure where the ink will be.)

@table @var
@item metrics
a @code{<pango-font-metrics>} structure

@item ret
the descent, in Pango units. (1 point == @samp{PANGO_SCALE} Pango units.)

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-describe  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<pango-font-description>})
@deffnx Method describe
Returns a description of the font, with font size set in points. Use
@code{pango-font-describe-with-absolute-size} if you want the font size in
device units.

@table @var
@item font
a @code{<pango-font>}

@item ret
a newly-allocated @code{<pango-font-description>} object.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-get-coverage  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font>}) (language@tie{}@code{<pango-language>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<pango-coverage>})
@deffnx Method get-coverage
Computes the coverage map for a given font and language tag.

@table @var
@item font
a @code{<pango-font>}

@item language
the language tag

@item ret
a newly-allocated @code{<pango-coverage>} object.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-get-glyph-extents  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font>}) (glyph@tie{}@code{unsigned-int32}) @result{}@tie{} (ink_rect@tie{}@code{<pango-rectangle>}) (logical_rect@tie{}@code{<pango-rectangle>})
@deffnx Method get-glyph-extents
Gets the logical and ink extents of a glyph within a font. The coordinate system
for each rectangle has its origin at the base line and horizontal origin of the
character with increasing coordinates extending to the right and down. The
macros @code{pango-ascent}, @code{pango-descent}, @code{pango-lbearing}, and
@code{pango-rbearing} can be used to convert from the extents rectangle to more
traditional font metrics. The units of the rectangles are in 1/PANGO_SCALE of a
device unit.

@table @var
@item font
a @code{<pango-font>}

@item glyph
the glyph index

@item ink-rect
rectangle used to store the extents of the glyph as drawn or @samp{@code{#f}} to
indicate that the result is not needed.

@item logical-rect
rectangle used to store the logical extents of the glyph or @samp{@code{#f}} to
indicate that the result is not needed.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-get-metrics  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font>}) (language@tie{}@code{<pango-language>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<pango-font-metrics>})
@deffnx Method get-metrics
Gets overall metric information for a font. Since the metrics may be
substantially different for different scripts, a language tag can be provided to
indicate that the metrics should be retrieved that correspond to the script(s)
used by that language.

@table @var
@item font
a @code{<pango-font>}

@item language
language tag used to determine which script to get the metrics for, or
@samp{@code{#f}} to indicate to get the metrics for the entire font.

@item ret
a @code{<pango-font-metrics>} object. The caller must call
@code{pango-font-metrics-unref} when finished using the object.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-get-font-map  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<pango-font-map>})
@deffnx Method get-font-map
Gets the font map for which the font was created.

@table @var
@item font
a @code{<pango-font>}

@item ret
the @code{<pango-font-map>} for the font

@end table

Since 1.10

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-family-get-name  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font-family>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-name
Gets the name of the family. The name is unique among all fonts for the font
backend and can be used in a @code{<pango-font-description>} to specify that a
face from this family is desired.

@table @var
@item family
a @code{<pango-font-family>}

@item ret
the name of the family. This string is owned by the family object and must not
be modified or freed.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-family-is-monospace  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font-family>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{bool})
@deffnx Method is-monospace
A monospace font is a font designed for text display where the the characters
form a regular grid. For Western languages this would mean that the advance
width of all characters are the same, but this categorization also includes
Asian fonts which include double-width characters: characters that occupy two
grid cells. @code{g-unichar-iswide} returns a result that indicates whether a
character is typically double-width in a monospace font.

The best way to find out the grid-cell size is to call
@code{pango-font-metrics-get-approximate-digit-width}, since the results of
@code{pango-font-metrics-get-approximate-char-width} may be affected by
double-width characters.

@table @var
@item family
a @code{<pango-font-family>}

@item ret
@samp{@code{#t}} if the family is monospace.

@end table

Since 1.4

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-face-get-face-name  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font-face>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{mchars})
@deffnx Method get-face-name
Gets a name representing the style of this face among the different faces in the
@code{<pango-font-family>} for the face. This name is unique among all faces in
the family and is suitable for displaying to users.

@table @var
@item face
a @code{<pango-font-face>}.

@item ret
the face name for the face. This string is owned by the face object and must not
be modified or freed.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-face-describe  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font-face>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<pango-font-description>})
@deffnx Method describe
Returns the family, style, variant, weight and stretch of a
@code{<pango-font-face>}. The size field of the resulting font description will
be unset.

@table @var
@item face
a @code{<pango-font-face>}

@item ret
a newly-created @code{<pango-font-description>} structure holding the
description of the face. Use @code{pango-font-description-free} to free the
result.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-map-load-font  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font-map>}) (context@tie{}@code{<pango-context>}) (desc@tie{}@code{<pango-font-description>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<pango-font>})
@deffnx Method load-font
Load the font in the fontmap that is the closest match for @var{desc}.

@table @var
@item fontmap
a @code{<pango-font-map>}

@item context
the @code{<pango-context>} the font will be used with

@item desc
a @code{<pango-font-description>} describing the font to load

@item ret
the font loaded, or @samp{@code{#f}} if no font matched.

@end table

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-font-map-load-fontset  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-font-map>}) (context@tie{}@code{<pango-context>}) (desc@tie{}@code{<pango-font-description>}) (language@tie{}@code{<pango-language>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<pango-fontset>})
@deffnx Method load-fontset
Load a set of fonts in the fontmap that can be used to render a font matching
@var{desc}.

@table @var
@item fontmap
a @code{<pango-font-map>}

@item context
the @code{<pango-context>} the font will be used with

@item desc
a @code{<pango-font-description>} describing the font to load

@item language
a @code{<pango-language>} the fonts will be used for

@item ret
the fontset, or @samp{@code{#f}} if no font matched.

@end table

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
