
@c %start of fragment

@deftp Class <pango-renderer>
This @code{<gobject>} class defines no properties, other than those defined by
its superclasses.

@end deftp

@deffn Function pango-renderer-draw-layout  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-renderer>}) (layout@tie{}@code{<pango-layout>}) (x@tie{}@code{int}) (y@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method draw-layout
Draws @var{layout} with the specified @code{<pango-renderer>}.

@table @var
@item renderer
a @code{<pango-renderer>}

@item layout
a @code{<pango-layout>}

@item x
X position of left edge of baseline, in user space coordinates in Pango units.

@item y
Y position of left edge of baseline, in user space coordinates in Pango units.

@end table

Since 1.8

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-renderer-draw-layout-line  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-renderer>}) (line@tie{}@code{<pango-layout-line>}) (x@tie{}@code{int}) (y@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method draw-layout-line
Draws @var{line} with the specified @code{<pango-renderer>}.

@table @var
@item renderer
a @code{<pango-renderer>}

@item line
a @code{<pango-layout-line>}

@item x
X position of left edge of baseline, in user space coordinates in Pango units.

@item y
Y position of left edge of baseline, in user space coordinates in Pango units.

@end table

Since 1.8

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-renderer-draw-glyphs  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-renderer>}) (font@tie{}@code{<pango-font>}) (glyphs@tie{}@code{<pango-glyph-string>}) (x@tie{}@code{int}) (y@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method draw-glyphs
Draws the glyphs in @var{glyphs} with the specified @code{<pango-renderer>}.

@table @var
@item renderer
a @code{<pango-renderer>}

@item font
a @code{<pango-font>}

@item glyphs
a @code{<pango-glyph-string>}

@item x
X position of left edge of baseline, in user space coordinates in Pango units.

@item y
Y position of left edge of baseline, in user space coordinates in Pango units.

@end table

Since 1.8

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-renderer-draw-rectangle  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-renderer>}) (part@tie{}@code{<pango-render-part>}) (x@tie{}@code{int}) (y@tie{}@code{int}) (width@tie{}@code{int}) (height@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method draw-rectangle
Draws an axis-aligned rectangle in user space coordinates with the specified
@code{<pango-renderer>}.

This should be called while @var{renderer} is already active. Use
@code{pango-renderer-activate} to activate a renderer.

@table @var
@item renderer
a @code{<pango-renderer>}

@item part
type of object this rectangle is part of

@item x
X position at which to draw rectangle, in user space coordinates in Pango units

@item y
Y position at which to draw rectangle, in user space coordinates in Pango units

@item width
width of rectangle in Pango units in user space coordinates

@item height
height of rectangle in Pango units in user space coordinates

@end table

Since 1.8

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-renderer-draw-error-underline  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-renderer>}) (x@tie{}@code{int}) (y@tie{}@code{int}) (width@tie{}@code{int}) (height@tie{}@code{int})
@deffnx Method draw-error-underline
Draw a squiggly line that approximately covers the given rectangle in the style
of an underline used to indicate a spelling error. (The width of the underline
is rounded to an integer number of up/down segments and the resulting rectangle
is centered in the original rectangle)

This should be called while @var{renderer} is already active. Use
@code{pango-renderer-activate} to activate a renderer.

@table @var
@item renderer
a @code{<pango-renderer>}

@item x
X coordinate of underline, in Pango units in user coordinate system

@item y
Y coordinate of underline, in Pango units in user coordinate system

@item width
width of underline, in Pango units in user coordinate system

@item height
height of underline, in Pango units in user coordinate system

@end table

Since 1.8

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-renderer-draw-trapezoid  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-renderer>}) (part@tie{}@code{<pango-render-part>}) (y1_@tie{}@code{double}) (x11@tie{}@code{double}) (x21@tie{}@code{double}) (y2@tie{}@code{double}) (x12@tie{}@code{double}) (x22@tie{}@code{double})
@deffnx Method draw-trapezoid
Draws a trapezoid with the parallel sides aligned with the X axis using the
given @code{<pango-renderer>}; coordinates are in device space.

@table @var
@item renderer
a @code{<pango-renderer>}

@item part
type of object this trapezoid is part of

@item y1
Y coordinate of top of trapezoid

@item x11
X coordinate of left end of top of trapezoid

@item x21
X coordinate of right end of top of trapezoid

@item y2
Y coordinate of bottom of trapezoid

@item x12
X coordinate of left end of bottom of trapezoid

@item x22
X coordinate of right end of bottom of trapezoid

@end table

Since 1.8

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-renderer-draw-glyph  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-renderer>}) (font@tie{}@code{<pango-font>}) (glyph@tie{}@code{unsigned-int32}) (x@tie{}@code{double}) (y@tie{}@code{double})
@deffnx Method draw-glyph
Draws a single glyph with coordinates in device space.

@table @var
@item renderer
a @code{<pango-renderer>}

@item font
a @code{<pango-font>}

@item glyph
the glyph index of a single glyph

@item x
X coordinate of left edge of baseline of glyph

@item y
Y coordinate of left edge of baseline of glyph

@end table

Since 1.8

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-renderer-activate  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-renderer>})
@deffnx Method activate
Does initial setup before rendering operations on @var{renderer}.
@code{pango-renderer-deactivate} should be called when done drawing. Calls such
as @code{pango-renderer-draw-layout} automatically activate the layout before
drawing on it. Calls to @code{pango-renderer-activate} and
@code{pango-renderer-deactivate} can be nested and the renderer will only be
initialized and deinitialized once.

@table @var
@item renderer
a @code{<pango-renderer>}

@end table

Since 1.8

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-renderer-deactivate  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-renderer>})
@deffnx Method deactivate
Cleans up after rendering operations on @var{renderer}. See docs for
@code{pango-renderer-activate}.

@table @var
@item renderer
a @code{<pango-renderer>}

@end table

Since 1.8

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-renderer-part-changed  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-renderer>}) (part@tie{}@code{<pango-render-part>})
@deffnx Method part-changed
Informs Pango that the way that the rendering is done for @var{part} has changed
in a way that would prevent multiple pieces being joined together into one
drawing call. For instance, if a subclass of @code{<pango-renderer>} was to add
a stipple option for drawing underlines, it needs to call

@example 

pango_renderer_part_changed (render, PANGO_RENDER_PART_UNDERLINE);
@end example

When the stipple changes or underlines with different stipples might be joined
together. Pango automatically calls this for changes to colors. (See
@code{pango-renderer-set-color})

@table @var
@item renderer
a @code{<pango-renderer>}

@item part
the part for which rendering has changed.

@end table

Since 1.8

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-renderer-set-color  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-renderer>}) (part@tie{}@code{<pango-render-part>}) (color@tie{}@code{<pango-color>})
@deffnx Method set-color
Sets the color for part of the rendering.

@table @var
@item renderer
a @code{<pango-renderer>}

@item part
the part to change the color of

@item color
the new color or @samp{@code{#f}} to unset the current color

@end table

Since 1.8

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-renderer-get-color  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-renderer>}) (part@tie{}@code{<pango-render-part>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<pango-color>})
@deffnx Method get-color
Gets the current rendering color for the specified part.

@table @var
@item renderer
a @code{<pango-renderer>}

@item part
the part to get the color for

@item ret
the color for the specified part, or @samp{@code{#f}} if it hasn't been set and
should be inherited from the environment.

@end table

Since 1.8

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-renderer-set-matrix  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-renderer>}) (matrix@tie{}@code{<pango-matrix>})
@deffnx Method set-matrix
Sets the transformation matrix that will be applied when rendering.

@table @var
@item renderer
a @code{<pango-renderer>}

@item matrix
a @code{<pango-matrix>}, or @samp{@code{#f}} to unset any existing matrix. (No
matrix set is the same as setting the identity matrix.)

@end table

Since 1.8

@end deffn

@deffn Function pango-renderer-get-matrix  (self@tie{}@code{<pango-renderer>}) @result{}@tie{} (ret@tie{}@code{<pango-matrix>})
@deffnx Method get-matrix
Gets the transformation matrix that will be applied when rendering. See
@code{pango-renderer-set-matrix}.

@table @var
@item renderer
a @code{<pango-renderer>}

@item ret
the matrix, or @samp{@code{#f}} if no matrix has been set (which is the same as
the identity matrix). The returned matrix is owned by Pango and must not be
modified or freed.

@end table

Since 1.8

@end deffn


@c %end of fragment
